 It is the adversary’s 
tactical objective: the reason for performing an action. 3.4 Techniques and Sub-Techniques 
Techniques represent “how” an adversary achieves a tactical objective by performing an action. Techniques may also represent “what” an adversary gains by 
performing an action. This is a useful distinction for the Discovery tactic as the techniques 
highlight what type of information an adversary is after with a particular action. There should be 
enough information and references to point toward 
useful defensive methodologies. There could be 
many ways of detecting a (sub-)technique but 
ATT&CK and MITRE do not endorse any particular 
vendor solution. Mitigation* 
Relationship 
/ Field 
Configurations, tools, or process that can prevent a 
(sub-)technique from working or having the desired 
outcome for an adversary. Mitigation 
fields are populated on a (sub-)technique page when 
a mitigation object is associated to a 
(sub-)technique.. The relationship describes the 
details of how a specific mitigation can be applied to 
the (sub-)technique. Mitigation recommendations 
remain vendor agnostic, recommending the general 
method or capability class rather than a specific tool. Mitigation may not always be possible for a given 
(sub-)technique and is documented as such if no 
relationships to a given (sub-)technique are present. Our goals for how sub-technique benefits ATT&CK were as follows: 
• Make the abstraction level of techniques similar across the knowledge base 
• Reduce the number of techniques to a manageable level 
• Provide a structure to allow sub-techniques to be added easily that would decrease the 
need to make changes to techniques over time 
• Demonstrate that techniques are not shallow and can have many ways they can be 
performed that should be considered 
• Simplify the process for adding new technology domains to ATT&CK that use 
overlapping techniques 
• Enable more detailed data sources and descriptions for how a behavior can be observed 
on specific platforms 
There are several points to consider about how sub-techniques are used within ATT&CK. The same procedure should not be mapped to both in order to reduce redundant relationships. 3.7 Mitigations 
Mitigations in ATT&CK represent security concepts and classes of technologies that can be used 
to prevent a technique or sub-technique from being successfully executed. ATT&CK Mitigation Model 
Data Item 
Type 
Description 
Name* 
Field 
The name of the mitigation category. Techniques 
Addressed by 
Mitigation* 
Relationship 
/ Field 
List of (sub-)techniques potentially covered by this 
mitigation. The perspective shift changes the question from what did happen based on a list of available 
resources to what could happen with a framework for aligning a defensive strategy to the 
adversary’s playbook. Defenders see adversaries in action and are often in a position to see when new techniques are 
being used. • An appropriate level of categorization to relate adversary’s action and specific ways of 
defending against it. Attacks on availability reduce or remove the ability to use a system or the information 
on it by damaging it or otherwise reducing its utility. • Mitigations- What mitigation options available for the technique? § Is the implementation or deployment methods of the mitigation 
fundamentally different than existing techniques that can be inhibited by a 
similar mitigation? o Are there different considerations for mitigation? [Accessed 16 March 2020].