 The posts, inspired by Katie Nickels’ Sp4rkcon talk “Putting MITRE  
ATT&CK into Action with What You Have, Where You Are,” were written by members of  
the ATT&CK team and focused on what we consider ATT&CK’s four primary use cases. As you do this, you can check out the  
ATT&CK website for some ideas to get you started with Detection and Mitigation of  
techniques. LEVEL 2 
If you have a team of threat analysts who regularly review information about adversaries, 
a next-level action you can take is to map intelligence to ATT&CK yourself rather than 
using what others have already mapped. Find the behavior—Think about the adversary’s action in a broader way than just the 
atomic indicator (like an IP address) they used. Compare your results to other analysts—Of course, you might have a different  
interpretation of a behavior than another analyst. Your goal shouldn’t be to get to zero false positives; it should  
be to reduce them as much as possible while still ensuring that you’ll catch the malicious  
behavior. For example, you can find their  
list of attacks for Regsvr32, including Squiblydoo. Of course, if you’re already doing red  
teaming, feel free to run the attacks you know yourself (on systems where you have  
permission!) and try to develop analytics for those! Bonus Level 0 Content: Really want to create your own analytics and run your own attacks  
but don’t have your own network? A general pattern to follow is to write the search to detect malicious behavior, revise it to  
filter out false positives, make sure it still detects the malicious behavior, and then repeat  
to reduce other sorts of false positives. ANALYTIC DEVELOPMENT WORKFLOW 
| 15 | 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Detection and Analytics | John Wunder 
LEVEL 3 
Feel confident that you’re cranking out quality analytics to detect attacks from Atomic  
Red Team? Test that confidence and improve your defenses by doing some purple  
teaming! In the real world, adversaries don’t just carry out cookie cutter attacks copy/pasted  
from some book. HEATMAP WITH CAR AND CUSTOM-DEVELOPED ANALYTICS  
And of course, over time, you’ll want to expand the scope of the things that you care  
about. It allows the operator to pick one technique or chain many together when  
building the test, which allows you to start to automate sequences of behaviors for your  
testing rather than manually executing single Atomic Tests. In this fourth section, we’re  
going to talk about assessments and engineering, showing how you can use ATT&CK to measure  
your defenses and enable improvement. Our recent restructuring of mitigations allows you to go through each 
mitigation and see the techniques it’s mapped to. Square A hardened local administrator account can prevent Windows Admin Shares. Consult your detection heatmap as part of this process; if there’s a  
high-cost mitigation that’ll prevent a technique that you’re doing a good job of detecting,  
it may not be a good trade-off. Make sure you have some visibility in cases where a mitigation  
or control may be bypassed so those events are less likely to be missed. Detection and  
mitigation should both be used as tools for effective coverage. Over time changes in the network and what’s collected may have unintended 
consequences that reduce the effectiveness of previously tested defenses. | 41 | 
|  Solving Problems for a Safer World