 In cloud 
environments, adversaries may create accounts that only have access to specific services, 
which can reduce the chance of detection. Associated Tactics: TA0004, TA0005 
 
T1189: Drive-by Compromise 
  Description: Adversaries may gain access to a system through a user visiting a website over 
the normal course of browsing. This development could be applied to social media, website, 
or other publicly available information that could be referenced and scrutinized for legitimacy 
over the course of an operation using that persona or identity. These often do not require 
an action by the user for the exploit to be executed. This can be used to inform the adversary’s follow-on action. (Citation: VectorSec ForFiles Aug 2017)(Citation: Evi1cg Forfiles Nov 2017)(Citation: 
Secure Team - Scriptrunner.exe)(Citation: SS64)(Citation: Bleeping Computer - 
Scriptrunner.exe) 
 
Adversaries may abuse these features for [Defense 
Evasion](https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0005), specifically to perform arbitrary execution 
while subverting detections and/or mitigation controls (such as Group Policy) that limit/prevent 
the usage of [cmd](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0106) or file extensions more commonly 
associated with malicious payloads. Once brought into the victim environment (i.e., [Ingress Tool 
Transfer](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1105)) files may then be copied from one system 
to another to stage adversary tools or other files over the course of an operation. Permissions gained from the modification of infrastructure components may bypass restrictions 
that prevent access to existing infrastructure. They achieve this by restricting traffic types to enforce organizational policy 
in an attempt to reduce the risk inherent in such connections. Associated Tactics: TA0010 
 
T1113: Screen Capture 
  Description: Adversaries may attempt to take screen captures of the desktop to gather 
information over the course of an operation. Token theft can also occur through social engineering, in which case user action may be 
required to grant access. (Citation: Unit 42 Pirpi July 2015) 
 
 
  Associated Tactics: TA0005, TA0007 
 
T1600: Weaken Encryption 
  Description: Adversaries may compromise a network device’s encryption capability in order to 
bypass encryption that would otherwise protect data communications. (Citation: Cisco Synful 
Knock Evolution) 
 
Encryption can be used to protect transmitted network traffic to maintain its confidentiality 
(protect against unauthorized disclosure) and integrity (protect against unauthorized changes). Use of Web services may also protect back-end C2 infrastructure from discovery through 
malware binary analysis while also enabling operational resiliency (since this infrastructure may 
be dynamically changed). (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire)(Citation: Krebs-Anna)(Citation: Krebs-
Bazaar)(Citation: Krebs-Booter) 
  Parent Technique: T1583 
  Associated Tactics: TA0042 
 
T1584.005: Botnet 
  Description: Adversaries may compromise numerous third-party systems to form a botnet that 
can be used during targeting. A botnet is a network of compromised systems that can be 
instructed to perform coordinated tasks. (Citation: Norton Botnet) Instead of purchasing/renting a 
botnet from a booter/stresser service, adversaries may build their own botnet by compromising 
numerous third-party systems. (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire) Adversaries may also conduct 
a takeover of an existing botnet, such as redirecting bots to adversary-controlled C2 
servers. Parent Technique: T1584 
  Associated Tactics: TA0042 
 
T1596.004: CDNs 
  Description: Adversaries may search content delivery network (CDN) data about victims that 
can be used during targeting. CDNs may also allow organizations to customize content 
delivery based on the requestor’s geographical region. CMSTP.exe can also be abused to [Bypass User Account 
Control](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1548/002) and execute arbitrary commands from a 
malicious INF through an auto-elevated COM interface. Use of a dead drop resolver may also protect back-end C2 infrastructure from discovery through 
malware binary analysis while also enabling operational resiliency (since this infrastructure may 
be dynamically changed). Adversaries may also disable updates to prevent the latest security patches from 
reaching tools on victim systems. Similar to [Obfuscated Files or Information](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1027), 
adversaries may use environmental keying to help protect their TTPs and evade detection. (Citation: Kaspersky Gauss Whitepaper) This 
can be used to prevent exposure of capabilities in environments that are not intended to be 
compromised or operated within. To prevent normal users from accidentally changing special files on a system, 
most operating systems have the concept of a ‘hidden’ file. This action does not 
require a system reboot and takes effect immediately. Parent Technique: T1547 
  Associated Tactics: TA0003, TA0004 
 
T1600.001: Reduce Key Space 
  Description: Adversaries may reduce the level of effort required to decrypt data transmitted 
over the network by reducing the cipher strength of encrypted communications. As a result, adversaries dramatically reduce the 
amount of effort needed to decrypt the protected information without the key. This may also reduce the likelihood of being collected 
for analysis. The impact to the user ranges 
from denying the operation under high enforcement to allowing the user to perform the action if 
they are in the local administrators group and click through the prompt or allowing them to enter 
an administrator password to complete the action. This DoS attack may also reduce the availability and 
functionality of the targeted system(s) and network. (Citation: Cybereason Dissecting DGAs)(Citation: Cisco Umbrella 
DGA)(Citation: Talos CCleanup 2017)(Citation: Akamai DGA Mitigation) 
 
Adversaries may use DGAs for the purpose of [Fallback 
Channels](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1008). Associated Tactics: TA0005 
 
T1608.004: Drive-by Target 
  Description: Adversaries may prepare an operational environment to infect systems that visit a 
website over the normal course of browsing. The rule files are in the plist format and define the name, event type, and action to take. If the file is not known/trusted, SmartScreen will prevent the 
execution and warn the user not to run it. In later versions of Windows (10+), <code>PubPrn.vbs</code> has been updated to prevent 
proxying execution from a remote site. This variation on input capture may be conducted post-compromise using legitimate 
administrative access as a backup measure to maintain network access through [External 
Remote Services](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1133) and [Valid 
Accounts](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1078) or as part of the initial compromise by 
exploitation of the externally facing web service. Associated Tactics: TA0002