 This British Standard was published under the authority of the
Standards Policy and Strategy Committee on 30 September 2011. Information security 
vulnerability 
Information 
asset 
Exploits
Exposes 
Causes 
Unwanted 
action 
Information 
security incident 
Implications on 
information security 
Classified as
Information 
security event 
Occurrence of
Threat 
Figure 1 — The relationship of objects in an information security incident chain 
4.2 Objectives 
As a key part of an organization's overall information security strategy, the organization should put controls 
and procedures in place to enable a structured well-planned approach to the management of information 
security incidents. From a business perspective, the prime objective is to avoid or contain the impact of 
information security incidents to reduce the direct and indirect costs caused by the incidents. This could prevent investigation activities from being directed to 
areas where they may be a higher priority where they are really needed and in the ideal priority. These are important considerations if legal prosecution or 
disciplinary action might follow. Furthermore, such 
awareness helps to reduce a mistake or panic/confusion by an individual in the event of an information 
security incident. If unreported information security events are determined to be incidents, it becomes 
difficult to investigate the incidents and to take control in order to prevent recurrence. f) 
Activity to establish, implement and operate technical and other support (including organizational) 
mechanisms for supporting the information security incident management scheme (and thus the work of 
the ISIRT), and in order to prevent information security incident occurrences or reduce the likelihood of 
occurrences of information security incidents (see Clause 5.6). Further 
information on IDS is contained in ISO/IEC 18043:2006. 
viii) Guidance and procedures associated with the technical and organizational mechanisms that are 
established, implemented and operated in order to prevent information security incident 
occurrences and to reduce the likelihood of occurrences of information security incidents, and to 
deal with occurred information security incidents. The PoC should review the information gathered and make the initial assessment as to 
whether events should be classified as incidents or not. d) 
incident information held in, and the outputs from the information security event/incident/vulnerability 
database, 
e) 
controls on confidentiality of sources as relevant, 
f) 
scheme service level agreements, 
g) 
notification of outcomes – under what circumstances sources are advised, 
h) 
any constraints imposed by non-disclosure agreements, 
i) 
the authority of the information security incident management organization and its reporting line, and 
j) 
who receives reports from the information security incident management scheme, and how the reports 
are distributed. In some cases, it may be desirable for the organization to include awareness detail specifically about 
information security incident management in other training programs (for example, personnel orientation 
programs or general corporate security awareness programs). This awareness approach may provide 
valuable context relevant to particular groups of people, and improves training program effectiveness and 
efficiency. Before the information security incident management scheme becomes operational, the organization should 
ensure that all relevant personnel are familiar with the procedures involved in the detection and reporting of 
information security events, and selected personnel are very knowledgeable about the subsequent activities. This should be followed up by regular awareness briefings and training courses. Periodic tests should be 
organized to check processes/procedures and to verify how the ISIRT responds to severe complex incidents, 
through the simulation of realistic attacks, failures or faults. The 
organization should ensure that the appropriate personnel deal with reported information security 
vulnerabilities in a similar manner to how non-information security faults are handled, possibly with 
assessment and resolution using technical personnel (who may or may not be members of the ISIRT). The information reported 
during each activity should be as complete as possible at the time, to ensure that there is a good base 
available for the assessments and decisions to be made, and of course the actions taken. This will prevent the ISIRT from doing duplicate work . The information 
reported during each activity should be as complete as possible at the time, to ensure that there is a good 
base available for the assessments and decisions to be made, and of course the actions taken. However, the most likely situation is that the 
information security incident needs to be referred directly to the ISIRT for further assessment and action. controls to be adopted to prevent re-occurrence or similar 
occurrences). The information reported during each activity should be as complete as possible 
at the time, to ensure that there is a good base available for the assessments and decisions to be made, and 
of course the actions taken. It is vitally important to follow planned processes and record action. further controls to be adopted to prevent re-occurrence or 
similar 
occurrences). The strategy should have identified the following: 
a) 
the required preventive, resilience and crisis management measures, 
b) 
the required organizational structure and responsibilities for responding to crisis, and 
BS ISO/IEC 27035:2011
ISO/IEC 27035:2011(E) 
© ISO/IEC 2011 – All rights reserved 
37
 
c) 
the required structure and outline content for the crisis management plan or plans. and associated media, should be stored in a physically secure environment and controlled by procedures 
to prevent unauthorized people from accessing, altering or rendering it unavailable. proceeding from the most volatile to the 
least volatile (this depends in large measure on the nature of the information security incident). q) 
Activity to provide expert support to any disciplinary or legal action as required. This is aided by the metrics fed into the organization's strategy on where to invest in 
information security controls. Thus, an organization should analyze the data in the information security 
event/incident/vulnerability database on a regular basis in order to do the following: 
a) 
identify trends/patterns, 
b) 
identify areas of concern, and 
c) 
analyze where preventive action could be taken to reduce the likelihood of future incidents. Relevant information acquired throughout the course of an information security incident should be channelled 
into the trend/pattern analysis (similarly to the way reported information security vulnerabilities are handled). Following an information security incident or a resolved vulnerability, if 
relevant an organization should update its information security policies and procedures to take into account 
information gleaned and any problem issues identified during the course of the incident management process. A.13.2.3 Collection of evidence 
Control: Where a follow-up action against a person or organization 
after an information security incident involves legal action (either 
civil or criminal), evidence should be collected, retained, and 
presented to conform to the rules for evidence laid down in the 
relevant jurisdiction(s). ‘no action’, ‘in-house action’, ‘internal 
investigation’, ‘external’ investigation by ...’) 
 
17. This does not preclude the free
use, in the course of implementing the standard of necessary details such as
symbols, and size, type or grade designations. Tel: +44 (0)20 8996 7070
Email: copyright@bsigroup.com