 You could repeat this for each of the  
software samples that we’ve mapped the group using, which we track separately on the  
ATT&CK website. Those data sources describe the types of data that 
could give you visibility into the given technique. An easy way to do that is to use Atomic  
Red Team, an open source project led by Red Canary that provides red team content  
aligned to ATT&CK that can be used to test analytics. For example, you can find their  
list of attacks for Regsvr32, including Squiblydoo. Of course, if you’re already doing red  
teaming, feel free to run the attacks you know yourself (on systems where you have  
permission!) and try to develop analytics for those! Bonus Level 0 Content: Really want to create your own analytics and run your own attacks  
but don’t have your own network? I  
picked Squiblydoo as an example because it’s an easy one: there’s no legitimate reason  
to have regsvr32.exe call out to the Internet, so a simple analytic is to look for times when  
the regsvr32.exe process is created and the command line includes “/i:http”. A general pattern to follow is to write the search to detect malicious behavior, revise it to  
filter out false positives, make sure it still detects the malicious behavior, and then repeat  
to reduce other sorts of false positives. ANALYTIC DEVELOPMENT WORKFLOW 
| 15 | 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Detection and Analytics | John Wunder 
LEVEL 3 
Feel confident that you’re cranking out quality analytics to detect attacks from Atomic  
Red Team? You and your blue team will be responsible for creating analytics and the red team will  
be responsible for adversary emulation—essentially, trying to evade your analytics by  
executing the types of attacks and evasions that we know from threat intelligence that  
adversaries use in the real world. To start testing, select the T1135 page to see the details and different types of atomic 
tests that are documented. CALDERA is an automated adversary  
emulation system created by MITRE that has many built-in behaviors mapped to ATT&CK  
techniques. It allows the operator to pick one technique or chain many together when  
building the test, which allows you to start to automate sequences of behaviors for your  
testing rather than manually executing single Atomic Tests. For example, if we’ve used the “whoami” command in 
our red team operation, we can search that on the ATT&CK website and find that two 
techniques likely apply: System Owner/User Discovery (T1033) and Command-Line  
Interface (T1059). All processes spawned by AcroRd32.exe 
3. Any processes named tscon.exe 
4. ATT&CK SITE SEARCH FOR PORT 22 
Another important aspect to consider are the Group and Software examples listed  
along with a technique. As an example, you might not be able to install Sysmon on each  
of your endpoints, but your existing software might be able to forward relevant logs that  
you might not otherwise have access to. Adam has presented and published in a number of venues including 
FIRST CTI, USENIX Security, and ACM Transactions on Information and System Security. | 41 | 
|  Solving Problems for a Safer World