 Attention is drawn to the possibility that some of the elements of this document may be the subject of patent 
rights. c) 
The adverse effects of information security incidents on the organization and its business operations are 
minimized by appropriate controls as part of the incident response, possibly in conjunction with relevant 
elements from a crisis management plan or plans. BS ISO/IEC 27035:2011
ISO/IEC 27035:2011(E) 
8 
© ISO/IEC 2011 – All rights reserved
 
Annex B provides descriptions of selected example information security incidents and their causes for 
informative purposes only. Overall, the 
scheme documentation should encompass the forms, procedures, organizational elements and support 
tools for the detection and reporting of, assessment and decision making related to, making responses to, 
and learning lessons from, information security incidents. 6) Anti-malicious code software. 7) Audit log records, and log monitoring software. h) 
Activity to test the use of the information security incident management scheme, its processes and 
procedures. This overview should include a summary of possible types of information security events, how to report 
them, what to report, where and to whom, and how to handle entirely new types of information security 
events. The goals and purposes of the team are especially 
important, and require clear, unambiguous definition. c) 
The relevant sections should outline scheme processes, and related infrastructure. taking an information system off-line or even shutting it down). The guidance should define 
information security event and incident types, escalation types and who may institute escalation. There should be operating procedures for dealing with types of information security events and incidents that 
are already known, as well as vulnerabilities. Another approach that may be adopted by the ISIRT is to win users' trust through transparency and mature 
processes. d) 
incident information held in, and the outputs from the information security event/incident/vulnerability 
database, 
e) 
controls on confidentiality of sources as relevant, 
f) 
scheme service level agreements, 
g) 
notification of outcomes – under what circumstances sources are advised, 
h) 
any constraints imposed by non-disclosure agreements, 
i) 
the authority of the information security incident management organization and its reporting line, and 
j) 
who receives reports from the information security incident management scheme, and how the reports 
are distributed. In some cases, it may be desirable for the organization to include awareness detail specifically about 
information security incident management in other training programs (for example, personnel orientation 
programs or general corporate security awareness programs). This awareness approach may provide 
valuable context relevant to particular groups of people, and improves training program effectiveness and 
efficiency. Before the information security incident management scheme becomes operational, the organization should 
ensure that all relevant personnel are familiar with the procedures involved in the detection and reporting of 
information security events, and selected personnel are very knowledgeable about the subsequent activities. This should be followed up by regular awareness briefings and training courses. The training should be 
supported by specific exercises and testing for PoC and ISIRT members, and information security personnel 
and specific administrators. Organizations should ensure that any changes made as a result of post 
testing reviews are subject to thorough checking, including further testing, before the changed scheme goes 
live. The 
organization should ensure that the appropriate personnel deal with reported information security 
vulnerabilities in a similar manner to how non-information security faults are handled, possibly with 
assessment and resolution using technical personnel (who may or may not be members of the ISIRT). g) 
Activity to register in an Incident Tracking System. In such cases a reporting form should be completed and forwarded to local 
management, to the PoC and to the ISIRT for recording purposes, i.e. All information collected pertaining to an information security event, incident or vulnerability should be stored 
in the information security event/incident/vulnerability database managed by the ISIRT, including for the 
purposes of further analysis. It is vitally important to follow planned processes and record action. For example, if it is determined that the cause of an information security incident is an IT hardware or software 
fault without an available patch, the supplier should be contacted immediately. 8.2.5 Information security forensics analysis 
Where identified by prior assessment as required for evidential purposes, de facto in the context of a 
significant information security incident, information security forensic analysis should be conducted by the 
ISIRT. These means should address all known aspects associated with known types of information 
security incidents and be documented in the ISIRT procedures. j) 
Activity to analyze system/service/network and application logs. It is emphasized that the information security incident management activities are iterative, and thus an 
organization should make regular improvements to a number of information security elements over time. 9.7 Other improvements 
Other improvements may have been identified during the lessons learnt phase, for example changes in 
information security policies, standards and procedures, and changes to IT hardware and software 
configurations. There are two main types of 
DoS/DDoS incidents caused by technical means: resource elimination and resource starvation. Such attacks are often performed through Botnets, a collection of software robots (malicious code) that run 
autonomously and automatically. due to air conditioning 
failure), 
 
system malfunctions or overload, 
 
uncontrolled system changes, 
 
malfunctions of software or hardware. Hardware failure, software malfunction, overloading 
(saturating the capacity of information systems), breach of 
maintainability, etc. For example, a computer virus or network worm 
intrudes into a computer system, and then installs a Trojan 
horse in the system. Exploitation of backdoor makes use of the backdoors or 
harmful programs left in software and hardware system 
design processes. Unauthorized use of resources accesses resources for 
unauthorised purposes, including profit-making ventures, 
for example, the use of e-mail to participate in illegal chain 
letters for profit or pyramid schemes. This approach classifies information 
system importance into three broad levels: especially important information system, important information 
system and ordinary information system. s) involved (if incident caused by people) 
Description of perpetrator 
Actual or perceived motivation 
Actions taken to resolve incident 
Actions planned to resolve incident 
Actions outstanding 
Conclusion 
BS ISO/IEC 27035:2011
ISO/IEC 27035:2011(E) 
64 
© ISO/IEC 2011 – All rights reserved
 
Internal individuals/entities notified 
External individuals/entities notified 
D.2. 12 Compromise of functions 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Abuse of rights 
        Forging of rights, Denial of actions 
        Mis-operations 
 
Breach of personnel availability 
        Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8.13 Compromise of information 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Interception 
        Spying, Eavesdropping 
        Disclosure 
 
Masquerade, 9.1 Information/Data 
 
9.2 Hardware 
 
9.3 Software 
 
9.4 Communications 
 
9.5 Documentation 
 
9.6 Processes 
 
9.7 Other 
 
10. natural elements, equipment failure, human error 
 
14. INTERNAL INDIVIDUALS/ENTITIES NOTIFIED 
(This detail to be completely by the 
relevant person with information security 
responsibilities, stating the actions 
required. EXTERNAL INDIVIDUALS/ENTITIES NOTIFIED 
(This detail to be completely by the 
relevant person with information security 
responsibilities, stating the actions 
required. pdf 
[24] 
Software Engineering Institute at Carnegie Mellon “CERT Coordination Centre”, CSIRT 
Services, http://www.cert.org/csirts/services.html 
[25] 
Software Engineering Institute at Carnegie Mellon “CERT Coordination Centre”, Action List for 
Developing 
a 
Computer 
Security 
Incident 
Response 
Team 
(CSIRT), http://www.cert.org/csirts/action_list.html 
[26] 
Software Engineering Institute at Carnegie Mellon “CERT Coordination Centre”, Staffing Your 
Computer 
Security 
Incident 
Response 
Team 
– 
What 
Basic 
Skills 
Are 
Needed? Tel: +44 (0)20 8996 7070
Email: copyright@bsigroup.com