 800-61 Revision 2, 79 pages (Aug. 2012) 
CODEN: NSPUE2 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comments on this publication may be submitted to: 
National Institute of Standards and Technology 
Attn: Computer Security Division, Information Technology Laboratory 
100 Bureau Drive (Mail Stop 8930), Gaithersburg, MD 20899-8930 
 
 
Certain commercial entities, equipment, or materials may be identified in this document in order to describe an 
experimental procedure or concept adequately. Such identification is not intended to imply recommendation or 
endorsement by NIST, nor is it intended to imply that the entities, materials, or equipment are necessarily the 
best available for the purpose. For planning and transition purposes, Federal agencies may wish to closely follow 
the development of these new publications by NIST. The guidelines can be followed independently of particular hardware platforms, operating systems, 
protocols, or applications. .................... 7 
2.3.1 
Policy Elements............................................................................................. 7 
2.3.2 
Plan Elements ............................................................................................... 8 
2.3.3 
Procedure Elements ...................................................................................... 8 
2.3.4 
Sharing Information With Outside Parties ... ................... 53 
Appendix B— Incident-Related Data Elements .....................................................................58 
B.1 Basic Data Elements ............................................................................................... 58 
B.2 Incident Handler Data Elements .............................................................................. New types of security-related incidents emerge frequently. The guidelines can be followed 
independently of particular hardware platforms, operating systems, protocols, or applications. Different types of incidents merit different response 
strategies. Follow-up 
reports generated for each resolved incident can be important not only for evidentiary purposes but also 
for reference in handling future incidents and in training new team members. Section 2.4.1 discusses the types of structures. 2.3.3 Procedure Elements 
Procedures should be based on the incident response policy and plan. Suggested SOP elements are presented throughout Section 3. The team should document all contacts and communications with outside parties for 
liability and evidentiary purposes.  Software Vendors. This understanding can ensure that the appropriate actions are taken for the affected system, 
such as whether to disconnect an attacked system. Organizations should ensure that incident response policies and 
procedures and business continuity processes are in sync.  if a permanent war room is not necessary or 
practical, the team should create a procedure for procuring a temporary war room when needed 
 Secure storage facility for securing evidence and other sensitive materials 
Incident Analysis Hardware and Software: 
 Digital forensic workstations21 and/or backup devices to create disk images, preserve log files, and 
save other relevant incident data 
 Laptops for activities such as analyzing data, sniffing packets, and writing reports 
 Spare workstations, servers,  and networking equipment, or the virtualized equivalents, which 
may be used for many purposes, such as restoring backups and trying out malware 
 Blank removable media 
 Portable printer to print copies of log files and other evidence from non-networked systems 
 Packet sniffers and protocol analyzers to capture and analyze network traffic 
 Digital forensic software to analyze disk images 
 Removable media with trusted versions of  These 
workstations typically contain a set of removable hard drives that can be used for evidence storage. COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
23 
Incident Analysis Resources: 
 Port lists, including commonly used ports and Trojan horse ports 
 Documentation for OSs, applications, protocols, and intrusion detection and antivirus products 
 Network diagrams and lists of critical assets, such as database servers 
 Current baselines of expected network, system, and application activity 
 Cryptographic hashes of critical files22 to speed incident analysis, verification, and eradication 
Incident Mitigation Software: 
 Access to images of clean OS and application installations for restoration and recovery purposes 
Many incident response teams create a jump kit, which is a portable case that contains materials that may 
be needed during an investigation. The jump kit should be ready to go at all times. Jump kits contain 
many of the same items listed in the bulleted lists above. For example, each jump kit typically includes a 
laptop, loaded with appropriate software (e.g., packet sniffers, digital forensics). Other important 
materials include backup devices, blank media, and basic networking equipment and cables. In addition to an investigative laptop, each incident handler should also 
have a standard laptop, smart phone, or other computing device for writing reports, reading email, and 
performing other duties unrelated to the hands-on incident analysis. 3.1.2 Preventing Incidents 
Keeping the number of incidents reasonably low is very important to protect the business processes of the 
organization. Different types of incidents merit 
different response strategies.  A system administrator sees a filename with unusual characters. Antivirus and 
antispam 
software 
Antivirus software detects various forms of malware, generates alerts, and prevents the malware 
from infecting hosts. File integrity 
checking 
software 
File integrity checking software can detect changes made to important files during incidents. This estimate may become the basis for subsequent prosecution activity by entities 
such as the U.S. Attorney General’s office. Absolute numbers are not informative—understanding how 
they represent threats to the business processes of the organization is what matters. For each incident, time can be measured in several ways: 
– Total amount of labor spent working on the incident 
– Elapsed time from the beginning of the incident to incident discovery, to the initial impact 
assessment, and to each stage of the incident handling process (e.g., containment, recovery) 
– How long it took the incident response team to respond to the initial report of the incident 
– How long it took to report the incident to management and, if necessary, appropriate external 
entities (e.g., US-CERT). Original hardware (e.g., hard drives, compromised systems) that is stored as evidence, as well 
as hard drives and removable media that are used to hold disk images, are generally individually 
inexpensive. The organization also must retain functional computers that can use the stored hardware 
and media. Examples include contact lists, encryption software, network diagrams, backup devices, digital 
forensic software, and port lists. Intrusion detection and prevention systems, antivirus software, and file integrity checking 
software are valuable for detecting signs of incidents. Each type of software may detect incidents that 
the other types of software cannot, so the use of several types of computer security software is highly 
recommended.  Obtain system snapshots through full forensic disk images, not file system backups. This process is superior to a file 
system backup for investigatory and evidentiary purposes. However, due to the informal nature of ad hoc information sharing, it is not possible to guarantee that the 
information sharing processes will always operate. The organization may want to construct a 
formal data dictionary enumerating all entities and relationships between entities that they will wish to 
share. Organizations should attempt to achieve a 
balance of automated information sharing overlaid with human-centric processes for managing the 
information flow. Organizations should consider which types of technical information should or should not be shared 
with various parties. Which personnel would be involved in the containment, eradication, and/or recovery processes? How would the system owners be identified? COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
58 
Appendix B—Incident-Related Data Elements 
Organizations should identify a standard set of incident-related data elements to be collected for each 
incident. The organization should designate 
a set of basic elements (e.g., incident reporter’s name, phone number, and location) to be collected when 
the incident is reported and an additional set of elements to be collected by the incident handlers during 
their response. Event: Any observable occurrence in a network or system. org/  
CEE  
Common Event Expression  
http://cee.mitre.org/  
CPE  
Common Platform Enumeration  
http://cpe.mitre.org/  
CVE  
Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures  
http://cve.mitre.org/  
CVSS  
Common Vulnerability Scoring System  
http://www.first.org/cvss/cvss-guide  
CWE  
Common Weakness Enumeration  
http://cwe.mitre.org/  
CybOX 
Cyber Observable eXpression 
http://cybox.mitre.org/  
MAEC  
Malware Attribute Enumeration and 
Characterization  
http://maec.mitre.org/  
OCIL  
Open Checklist Interactive Language  
http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/ PubsNISTIRs. What should someone do who discovers that a system has been attacked? 1.1) 
 Added a mention of exercises (Section 3.1.1) 
 Revised the attack vectors (formerly incident categories) (Section 3.2.1) 
COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
70 
 Added SIEMs, network flows as common sources of precursors and indicators (Section 3.2.3) 
 Expanded discussion of eradication and recovery (Section 3.3.4) 
 Added a section on coordination and information sharing (Section 4) 
 Added a table of data exchange specifications applicable to incident handling (Appendix E)