 Introduction 
MITRE ATT&CK is a curated knowledge base and model for cyber adversary behavior, 
reflecting the various phases of an adversary’s attack lifecycle and the platforms they are known 
to target. At a high-level, ATT&CK is a behavioral model that consists of the following 
core components: 
• Tactics, denoting short-term, tactical adversary goals during an attack; 
• Techniques, describing the means by which adversaries achieve tactical goals; 
• Sub-techniques, describing more specific means by which adversaries achieve tactical 
goals at a lower level than techniques; and 
• Documented adversary usage of techniques, their procedures, and other metadata. ATT&CK is not an exhaustive enumeration of attack vectors against software. ATT&CK for ICS was published in 2020 to document behavior 
against industrial controls systems. There could be 
many ways of detecting a (sub-)technique but 
ATT&CK and MITRE do not endorse any particular 
vendor solution. Mitigation 
fields are populated on a (sub-)technique page when 
a mitigation object is associated to a 
(sub-)technique.. The relationship describes the 
details of how a specific mitigation can be applied to 
the (sub-)technique. Mitigation recommendations 
remain vendor agnostic, recommending the general 
method or capability class rather than a specific tool. Mitigation may not always be possible for a given 
(sub-)technique and is documented as such if no 
relationships to a given (sub-)technique are present. Some 
techniques were very broad and some were narrow, only describing a very specific behavior. For detection, 
oftentimes defensive analysts are presented with alerts with little to no context about the event 
that caused the alert. When this occurs, it is important to focus on the distinguishing attribute of the 
behavior or what makes it different than the others. • Unreported – There is no public or non-public source of intel saying a behavior is in use. o How is the new behavior performed? o Does the new behavior have a different mitigation method or set of methods than 
the existing technique? Available: https://medium.com/mitre-attack/2020-attack-roadmap-4820d30b38ba. [2]  The MITRE Corporation, "Common Attack Pattern Enumeration and Classification," 21 
February 2018. Available: https://medium.com/mitre-attack/how-to-be-a-savvy-attack-consumer-
63e45b8e94c9. [Accessed 16 March 2020].