 Adam Pennington  
Principal Cybersecurity Engineer  
ATT&CK Blog Editor in Chief  
MITRE 
attack.mitre.org 
medium.com/mitre-attack 
twitter.com/MITREattack 
linkedin.com/showcase/mitre-att&ck 
| 1 | 
1 Threat Intelligence 
Katie Nickels 
Based on feedback from ATT&CK users, both at the first ATT&CKcon and from other avenues,  
we’ve learned a lot. Research the behavior—If you’re not familiar with the behavior, you may need to do 
more research. Translate the behavior into a tactic—Consider the adversary’s technical goal for that 
behavior and choose a tactic that fits. Looking at the technique description, you’ll find this could be where 
our behavior fits. Compare your results to other analysts—Of course, you might have a different  
interpretation of a behavior than another analyst. 2 Detection and Analytics 
John Wunder 
Hopefully you had a chance to read in Chapter 1 on getting started using ATT&CK for threat  
intelligence, which walked through understanding what adversaries are doing to attack you and  
how to use that knowledge to prioritize what to defend. Rather than identifying things that are known to be bad and blocking them, ATT&CK-
based analytics involve collecting log and event data about the things happening on your systems 
and using that to identify the suspicious behaviors described in ATT&CK.  Windows 
Event Logs, and many EDR platforms 
Square File and registry monitoring, also often collected by Sysmon, Windows Event Logs, 
and many EDR platforms 
Square Authentication logs, such as those collected from the domain controller via Windows 
Event Logs 
Square Packet capture, especially east/west capture such as that collected between hosts 
and enclaves in your network by sensors such as Zeek 
Once you know what data you have, you’ll need to collect that data into some kind 
of search platform (Security Information and Event Management or SIEM) so you 
can run analytics against it. For example, you can find their  
list of attacks for Regsvr32, including Squiblydoo. Of course, if you’re already doing red  
teaming, feel free to run the attacks you know yourself (on systems where you have  
permission!) and try to develop analytics for those! Bonus Level 0 Content: Really want to create your own analytics and run your own attacks  
but don’t have your own network? | 14 | 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Detection and Analytics | John Wunder 
OUTPUT FROM RUNNING THE SQUIBLYDOO ATTACK TO LAUNCH CALC.EXE  
Once you’ve run the attack, look inside your SIEM to see what log data was generated. At this stage, you’re looking for things that make this malicious event look distinctive. A general pattern to follow is to write the search to detect malicious behavior, revise it to  
filter out false positives, make sure it still detects the malicious behavior, and then repeat  
to reduce other sorts of false positives. They can then find and execute an attack that  
will evade that analytic. In the end, you want to be developing a more  
and more comprehensive set of detections so that you can detect more and more of the  
things that adversaries do to attack us—and ATT&CK gives you the scorecard to do so. It allows the operator to pick one technique or chain many together when  
building the test, which allows you to start to automate sequences of behaviors for your  
testing rather than manually executing single Atomic Tests. Develop tools and procedures—Now that you know what you’d like the red team to 
do, figure out how to implement the behavior. Tip: A frequently cited data source is Windows Event Logs, which provide visibility into 
many ATT&CK techniques. A good resource for getting started with event logs is Malware 
Archaeology’s Windows ATT&CK Logging Cheat Sheet, which maps Windows events to the 
techniques you could detect with them. As an example, you might have an analytic that looks at a specific  
Windows event; to determine this analytic’s coverage, you can look up the event ID in  
the Windows ATT&CK Logging Cheat Sheet or a similar repository. Square Leveraging Microsoft EMET’s Attack Surface Reduction rules can make it harder to 
use RunDLL32. | 41 | 
|  Solving Problems for a Safer World