Data extracted from: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mitre-attack/attack-stix-
data/master/enterprise-attack/enterprise-attack.json 
 
Obs. This kind of targeted campaign is often referred to a 
strategic web compromise or watering hole attack. After gaining access to a victim system, 
adversaries may create/modify event triggers to point to malicious content that will be executed 
whenever the event trigger is invoked. (Citation: Bugcrowd Replay Attack)(Citation: Comparitech Replay 
Attack)(Citation: Microsoft Midnight Blizzard Replay Attack) 
 
Such exploitation has been demonstrated in cloud environments as well. IPC is also commonly used to avoid situations such 
as deadlocks, which occurs when processes are stuck in a cyclic waiting pattern. This is common behavior that can be used across different platforms and the network to 
evade defenses. A variation on this behavior takes advantage of differences in functionality across cloud regions. (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire)(Citation: Krebs-Anna)(Citation: Krebs-
Bazaar)(Citation: Krebs-Booter) 
  Parent Technique: T1583 
  Associated Tactics: TA0042 
 
T1584.005: Botnet 
  Description: Adversaries may compromise numerous third-party systems to form a botnet that 
can be used during targeting. A botnet is a network of compromised systems that can be 
instructed to perform coordinated tasks. (Citation: Norton Botnet) Instead of purchasing/renting a 
botnet from a booter/stresser service, adversaries may build their own botnet by compromising 
numerous third-party systems. (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire) Adversaries may also conduct 
a takeover of an existing botnet, such as redirecting bots to adversary-controlled C2 
servers. CMSTP.exe can also be abused to [Bypass User Account 
Control](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1548/002) and execute arbitrary commands from a 
malicious INF through an auto-elevated COM interface. Many operating systems use signals to deliver messages to 
control process behavior. This could include maliciously redirecting(Citation: 
Microsoft Lamin Sept 2017) or even disabling host-based sensors, such as Event Tracing for 
Windows (ETW)(Citation: Microsoft About Event Tracing 2018), by tampering settings that 
control the collection and flow of event telemetry. This behavior is the same for logout hooks 
where a script can be executed upon user logout. Outlook rules allow a user to define automated behavior to manage email 
messages. Associated Tactics: TA0005 
 
T1070.001: Clear Windows Event Logs 
  Description: Adversaries may clear Windows Event Logs to hide the activity of an intrusion. Windows Event Logs are a record of a computer's alerts and notifications. This DoS attack may also reduce the availability and 
functionality of the targeted system(s) and network. This kind of targeted 
campaign is referred to a strategic web compromise or watering hole attack. An adversary accomplishes a reflection attack by 
sending packets to reflectors with the spoofed address of the victim. ]com/malicious.sct")"</code>  This 
behavior has been seen used by malware such as Poweliks. WMI can be used to install event filters, providers, consumers, and bindings that 
execute code when a defined event occurs. (Citation: Mandiant M-Trends 2015) 
 
Adversaries may use the capabilities of WMI to subscribe to an event and execute arbitrary 
code when that event occurs, providing persistence on a system. Associated Tactics: TA0002