 2) The information security event/incident/vulnerability forms: 
i) 
completed by the person reporting an information security event (i.e. The organization's awareness briefings should encompass the following: 
a) 
benefits to be derived from the structured approach to information security incident management, both to 
the organization and to its personnel, 
b) 
how the information security incident management scheme works, including its scope and the security 
event, incident and vulnerability management workflow, 
c) 
how to report on information security events, incidents and vulnerabilities, 
 In some cases, it may be desirable for the organization to include awareness detail specifically about 
information security incident management in other training programs (for example, personnel orientation 
programs or general corporate security awareness programs). This awareness approach may provide 
valuable context relevant to particular groups of people, and improves training program effectiveness and 
efficiency. Before the information security incident management scheme becomes operational, the organization should 
ensure that all relevant personnel are familiar with the procedures involved in the detection and reporting of 
information security events, and selected personnel are very knowledgeable about the subsequent activities. This should be followed up by regular awareness briefings and training courses. Periodic tests should be 
organized to check processes/procedures and to verify how the ISIRT responds to severe complex incidents, 
through the simulation of realistic attacks, failures or faults. The 
organization should ensure that the appropriate personnel deal with reported information security 
vulnerabilities in a similar manner to how non-information security faults are handled, possibly with 
assessment and resolution using technical personnel (who may or may not be members of the ISIRT). e-mail) are themselves visible targets for attack. This includes when it is thought possible that the system 
is under attack and unauthorized people could read reporting electronic forms. With regard to information security incidents that are caused by something other than deliberate attack, the 
source should be identified. e-mail or web), 
including when it is thought possible that the system is under attack, the report to the relevant people should 
be done by telephone or text messaging. Relevant information acquired throughout the course of an information security incident should be channelled 
into the trend/pattern analysis (similarly to the way reported information security vulnerabilities are handled). the source of the attack is ‘faked’), since they typically do not rely on the attacker receiving any information 
back from the network or system being attacked. B.1.3 
Malicious code 
Malicious code identifies a program or part of a program inserted into another program with the intent to 
modify its original behaviour, usually to perform malicious activities as information and identify theft, 
information and resource destruction, Denial of Service, Spam, etc. D.2 Example items in records 
D.2.1 Example items of the record for information security event 
This includes basic information of the information security event, such as when, what, how and why the event 
occurred, as well as the contact information of the reporting person. Whether the 
information 
security 
event 
is 
classified 
as 
an 
incident 
or 
not, 
the 
information 
security 
event/incident/vulnerability database should be updated. e-mail), including when it is thought 
possible that the system is under attack and report electronic forms could be read by unauthorized people, 
then alternative means of reporting should be used. Date of Event 
 
 
Page 1 of 1 
2. Event Number3 
 
3. INFORMATION SECURITY EVENT DETAILS 
6.1 Date and Time the Event Occurred 
 
6.2 Date and Time the Event was Discovered 
 
6.3 Date and Time the Event was Reported 
 
6.4 Is the Response to this Event Closed? Tel: +44 (0)20 8996 7070
Email: copyright@bsigroup.com