 The attack vectors are: 
 External/Removable Media: An attack executed from removable media (e.g., flash drive, CD) or a 
peripheral device.  Improper Usage: Any incident resulting from violation of an organization’s acceptable usage 
policies by an authorized user, excluding the above categories.  Other: An attack that does not fit into any of the other categories. 2.1 
Events and Incidents 
An event is any observable occurrence in a system or network. A computer security incident is a violation or imminent threat of violation1 of computer security policies, 
acceptable use policies, or standard security practices. Another benefit of incident 
response is the ability to use information gained during incident handling to better prepare for handling 
                                                      
1  
An “imminent threat of violation” refers to a situation in which the organization has a factual basis for believing that a 
specific incident is about to occur. In addition, agencies have an 
Office of Inspector General (OIG) for investigation of violation of the law within each agency. However, technical staff members within the 
organization usually have much better knowledge of the organization’s environment than an 
outsourcer would, which can be beneficial in identifying false positives associated with organization-
specific behavior and the criticality of targets. The jump kit should be ready to go at all times. Jump kits contain 
many of the same items listed in the bulleted lists above. For example, each jump kit typically includes a 
laptop, loaded with appropriate software (e.g., packet sniffers, digital forensics). Other important 
materials include backup devices, blank media, and basic networking equipment and cables. Note that because this laptop is special purpose, 
it is likely to use software other than the standard enterprise tools and configurations, and whenever 
possible the incident handlers should be allowed to specify basic technical requirements for these special-
purpose investigative laptops. In addition to an investigative laptop, each incident handler should also 
have a standard laptop, smart phone, or other computing device for writing reports, reading email, and 
performing other duties unrelated to the hands-on incident analysis.  Other: An attack that does not fit into any of the other categories. Logs can be used for 
analysis by correlating event information. Depending on the event information, an alert can be 
generated to indicate an incident. Incident response team members should study networks, systems, 
and applications to understand what their normal behavior is so that abnormal behavior can be 
recognized more easily. No incident handler will have a comprehensive knowledge of all behavior 
throughout the environment, but handlers should know which experts could fill in the gaps. A network IDPS may detect that an attack was launched 
against a particular host, but it may not know if the attack was successful. Performing an Internet search using the 
apparent source IP address of an attack may lead to more information on the attack—for example, a 
mailing list message regarding a similar attack. For example, if an 
attacker is able to use knowledge gathered in one attack to perform a more severe attack later, 
evidence from the first attack may be key to explaining how the second attack was accomplished. Team members who 
understand normal behavior should be able to recognize abnormal behavior more easily.  Perform event correlation. For example, if an organization 
identifies some behavior on its network that seems suspicious and sends information about the event to a 
set of trusted partners, someone else in that network may have already seen similar behavior and be able 
to respond with additional details about the suspicious activity, including signatures, other indicators to 
look for, or suggested remediation actions. Event: Any observable occurrence in a network or system. Incident: A violation or imminent threat of violation of computer security policies, acceptable use 
policies, or standard security practices. Signature: A recognizable, distinguishing pattern associated with an attack, such as a binary string in a 
virus or a particular set of keystrokes used to gain unauthorized access to a system. Threat: The potential source of an adverse event. html#800-128  
 
 
 
COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
64 
Data Exchange Specifications Applicable to Incident Handling 
Title 
Description 
Additional Information 
AI 
Asset Identification  
http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/ PubsNISTIRs.html#NIST-
IR-7693  
ARF  
Asset Results Format  
http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/ PubsNISTIRs.html#NIST-
IR-7694  
CAPEC  
Common Attack Pattern Enumeration 
and Classification  
http://capec.mitre.org/  
CCE  
Common Configuration Enumeration  
http://cce.mitre. In general, an incident is a violation of computer security policies, acceptable use policies, or 
standard computer security practices. 1.1) 
 Added a mention of exercises (Section 3.1.1) 
 Revised the attack vectors (formerly incident categories) (Section 3.2.1) 
COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
70 
 Added SIEMs, network flows as common sources of precursors and indicators (Section 3.2.3) 
 Expanded discussion of eradication and recovery (Section 3.3.4) 
 Added a section on coordination and information sharing (Section 4) 
 Added a table of data exchange specifications applicable to incident handling (Appendix E)