 The process 
MITRE used to create ATT&CK, and the philosophy that has developed for curating new 
content, are critical aspects of the work and are useful for other efforts that strive to create 
similar adversary models and information repositories. Adversary emulation focuses on the ability of an organization to verify detection 
and/or mitigation of the adversarial activity at all applicable points in their lifecycle. Defensive Gap Assessment – A defensive gap assessment allows an organization to determine 
what parts of its enterprise lack defenses and/or visibility. SOC Maturity Assessment – An organization’s Security Operations Center is a critical 
component of many medium to large enterprise networks that continuously monitor for active 
 
 
1 https://car.mitre.org 
 
4 
©2020 The MITRE Corporation. The structured format of ATT&CK 
can add value to threat reporting by categorizing behavior beyond standard indicators. Operationalizing ATT&CK for an organization also encompasses determining what it means for 
you to have “ATT&CK coverage”. It is independent of 
technology and models an adversary’s behavior as they attempt to gain access to an organization 
or entity through the technology they leverage, spanning multiple domains. Version* 
Field 
Version of the (sub-)technique in the format of 
MAJOR.MINOR. There could be 
many ways of detecting a (sub-)technique but 
ATT&CK and MITRE do not endorse any particular 
vendor solution. Detection recommendations should 
therefore remain vendor agnostic, recommending 
the general method and class of tools rather than a 
specific tool. Detection may not always be possible 
 
12 
©2020 The MITRE Corporation. Mitigation 
fields are populated on a (sub-)technique page when 
a mitigation object is associated to a 
(sub-)technique.. The relationship describes the 
details of how a specific mitigation can be applied to 
the (sub-)technique. Mitigation recommendations 
remain vendor agnostic, recommending the general 
method or capability class rather than a specific tool. Mitigation may not always be possible for a given 
(sub-)technique and is documented as such if no 
relationships to a given (sub-)technique are present. 3.4.3 Sub-Technique Details 
The addition of sub-techniques to ATT&CK in 2020 marked a significant shift to how behavior 
is described within the knowledge base. The change was driven by the need to fix some of the 
technique abstraction level issues that occurred as ATT&CK grew over the years. If the information is ambiguous such 
that a sub-technique cannot be identified, then the information will be mapped to the technique. The information within ATT&CK has evolved over time, as have the considerations used for 
what information gets included and how it’s structured. 4.1.2.1 
Sources of Information 
New information relevant to ATT&CK techniques can come from many different sources. The information may be used in different ways 
depending on where the information comes from and the vantage the contributing organization 
or individual has. Each technique and sub-technique in the 
Impact tactic includes a mandatory “Impact Type” tag with a value of “Availability” or 
“Integrity” indicating which one the (sub-)technique impacts. Do other sources corroborate information provided? There could be several nuances that lead an analyst and organization to categorize 
adversary activity separately, such as differences in visibility into a group’s suspected activity. This is still a very useful source of information. We hope this document can be a useful resource for efforts seeking to 
follow the process used to apply the ATT&CK methodology, whether it’s to help us expand and 
maintain MITRE ATT&CK knowledge bases or to model adversary behavior in new areas that 
aren’t directly related to the domains covered by ATT&CK. [Accessed 16 March 2020].