 For each use case, the authors laid out advice on how an organization could get started  
with ATT&CK based on available resources and overall maturity. This publication pulls together their collective wisdom, originally posted on Medium, into  
a single package. For those CTI teams who have a couple of analysts, mapping information to ATT&CK  
yourself can be a good way to ensure you’re getting the most relevant information to  
meet your organization’s requirements. From there, you can pass the ATT&CK-mapped  
adversary information to your defenders to inform their defenses, as we discussed above. LEVEL 3 
If your CTI team is advanced, you can start to map more information to ATT&CK, and  
then use that information to prioritize how you defend. Taking the above process, you can  
map both internal and external information to ATT&CK, including incident response data,  
reports from OSINT or threat intel subscriptions, real-time alerts, and your organization’s  
historic information. (All this is based solely on publicly available information that we’ve  
mapped, which is only a subset of what those groups have done.) For example, you can find their  
list of attacks for Regsvr32, including Squiblydoo. Of course, if you’re already doing red  
teaming, feel free to run the attacks you know yourself (on systems where you have  
permission!) and try to develop analytics for those! Bonus Level 0 Content: Really want to create your own analytics and run your own attacks  
but don’t have your own network? ANALYTIC DEVELOPMENT WORKFLOW 
| 15 | 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Detection and Analytics | John Wunder 
LEVEL 3 
Feel confident that you’re cranking out quality analytics to detect attacks from Atomic  
Red Team? Test that confidence and improve your defenses by doing some purple  
teaming! Each of these tests contains information about what the 
technique is, the platforms supported, and how to execute the test. It allows the operator to pick one technique or chain many together when  
building the test, which allows you to start to automate sequences of behaviors for your  
testing rather than manually executing single Atomic Tests. SEARCH FUNCTION ON HTTPS://ATTACK.MITRE.ORG 
Another helpful resource to get you started mapping red team procedures to ATT&CK is  
the APT3 Adversary Emulation Field Manual, which breaks out command-by-command  
actions that APT3 has used, all mapped to ATT&CK. with known threats that may target  
the organization. We want to make sure we’re not just doing the techniques because our tool can perform  
them—we want to emulate a real adversary we care about to provide more value. These purple techniques give us a place to start to use a tool we already have and  
perform techniques that are a priority to our organization. LEVEL 3 
By this point, your red team is integrating ATT&CK into operations and finding value in 
communicating back to the blue team. Gather threat intel—Select an adversary based on the threats to your organization 
and work with the CTI team to analyze intelligence about what the adversary has 
done. Combine what’s based on what your organization knows in addition to publicly 
available intel to document the adversary behaviors, what they go after, whether they 
do smash and grab or low and slow. To make this process more accessible—and following along with the other chapters—we’ve 
broken this section down into three levels based on sophistication and resource availability: 
Square Level 1 for those just starting out who may not have many resources 
Square Level 2 for those who are mid-level teams starting to mature 
Square Level 3 for those with more advanced cybersecurity teams and resources 
Getting started with “assessments” might sound frightening at first—who enjoys being 
assessed?—but ATT&CK assessments are a part of a larger process to provide useful data to 
security engineers and architects justifying threat-based security improvements: 
1. A good resource for getting started with event logs is Malware 
Archaeology’s Windows ATT&CK Logging Cheat Sheet, which maps Windows events to the 
techniques you could detect with them. ATT&CK is open and available to any person or organization for use at no charge. | 41 | 
|  Solving Problems for a Safer World