 Such information may include details of the 
victim organization, infrastructure, or staff/personnel. (Citation: CarbonBlack Conti July 2020) In some cases, 
adversaries may encrypt critical system files, disk partitions, and the MBR. (Citation: Amazon S3 Security, 2019)(Citation: Microsoft Azure Storage 
Security, 2019)(Citation: Google Cloud Storage Best Practices, 2019) There have been 
numerous incidents where cloud storage has been improperly secured, typically by 
unintentionally allowing public access to unauthenticated users, overly-broad access by all 
users, or even access for any anonymous person outside the control of the Identity Access 
Management system without even needing basic user permissions. Information repositories are tools that allow for storage of information, typically to facilitate 
collaboration or information sharing between users, and can store a wide variety of data that 
may aid adversaries in further objectives, such as Credential Access, Lateral Movement, or 
Defense Evasion, or direct access to the target information. Associated Tactics: TA0010 
 
T1011: Exfiltration Over Other Network Medium 
  Description: Adversaries may attempt to exfiltrate data over a different network medium than 
the command and control channel. Associated Tactics: TA0010 
 
T1052: Exfiltration Over Physical Medium 
  Description: Adversaries may attempt to exfiltrate data via a physical medium, such as a 
removable drive. In certain circumstances, such as an air-gapped network compromise, 
exfiltration could occur via a physical medium or device introduced by a user. The physical medium or device could be used as the final exfiltration 
point or to hop between otherwise disconnected systems. (Citation: Google Cloud Mandiant UNC3886 2024)(Citation: Emotet shutdown) 
 
 
  Associated Tactics: TA0005 
 
T1656: Impersonation 
  Description: Adversaries may impersonate a trusted person or organization in order to 
persuade and trick a target into performing some action on their behalf. Phishing for information is an attempt to trick targets into divulging 
information, frequently credentials or other actionable information. Resource hijacking may take a number of different forms. Scripting is useful for speeding up operational tasks and reducing the time 
required to gain access to critical resources. [Resource 
Hijacking](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1496)). Stopping critical services or processes can inhibit or stop 
response to an incident or aid in the adversary's overall objectives to cause damage to the 
environment. (Citation: Medium 
Certified Pre Owned) 
 
Abusing certificates for authentication credentials may enable other behaviors such as [Lateral 
Movement](https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0008). The value stored in the Registry key will be executed after a user 
logs into the computer. This value will serve as the program that will be 
executed when a user logs into the computer. (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire)(Citation: Krebs-Anna)(Citation: Krebs-
Bazaar)(Citation: Krebs-Booter) 
  Parent Technique: T1583 
  Associated Tactics: TA0042 
 
T1584.005: Botnet 
  Description: Adversaries may compromise numerous third-party systems to form a botnet that 
can be used during targeting. A botnet is a network of compromised systems that can be 
instructed to perform coordinated tasks. (Citation: Norton Botnet) Instead of purchasing/renting a 
botnet from a booter/stresser service, adversaries may build their own botnet by compromising 
numerous third-party systems. (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire) Adversaries may also conduct 
a takeover of an existing botnet, such as redirecting bots to adversary-controlled C2 
servers. CDNs allow an organization to host content from a distributed, 
load balanced array of servers. CMSTP.exe can also be abused to [Bypass User Account 
Control](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1548/002) and execute arbitrary commands from a 
malicious INF through an auto-elevated COM interface. Such control can allow for 
redirection of an organization's traffic, facilitating Collection and Credential Access efforts for the 
adversary. (Citation: ICANNDomainNameHijacking) 
Adversaries may gain access to an email account for the person listed as the owner of the 
domain. If the signature is valid, and the person examining the certificate trusts the signer, 
then they know they can use that key to communicate securely with its owner. A service ticket allows for 
access to a particular resource, whereas a TGT can be used to request service tickets from the 
Ticket Granting Service (TGS) to access any resource the user has privileges to 
access. Adversaries can add other programs or processes to this registry value which will automatically 
launch at boot. Resource forks have been deprecated and replaced with the 
application bundle structure. (Citation: Resource and Data Forks)(Citation: ELC Extended Attributes) 
 
Adversaries can use resource forks to hide malicious data that may otherwise be stored directly 
in files. Spearphishing for information is an 
attempt to trick targets into divulging information, frequently credentials or other actionable 
information. (Citation: Sucuri BIND9 August 2015) Some 
systems may automatically restart critical applications and services when crashes occur, but 
they can likely be re-exploited to cause a persistent denial of service (DoS) condition. which may further cause a DoS condition 
and deny availability to critical information, applications and/or systems. (Citation: SpectorOps 
Medium ClickOnce) 
 
Because ClickOnce applications receive only limited permissions, they do not require 
administrative permissions to install. Once adversaries gain access to a victim organization, they may mine CRM software for 
customer data. If the signature is valid, and the person examining the 
certificate trusts the signer, then they know they can use that key to communicate with its 
owner. If the signature is valid, and the person examining the 
certificate trusts the signer, then they know they can use that key to communicate with its 
owner. Adversaries may attempt to render the system unable to boot by overwriting critical data located 
in structures such as the master boot record (MBR) or partition table. Associated Tactics: TA0042 
 
T1491.002: External Defacement 
  Description: An adversary may deface systems external to an organization in an attempt to 
deliver messaging, intimidate, or otherwise mislead an organization or users. A mutex is a locking mechanism used to synchronize access to a 
resource. This 
value can be changed using the <code>AccessTokenLifetime</code> in a 
<code>LifetimeTokenPolicy</code>. The Windows security identifier (SID) is a unique value that identifies a user or 
group account. Specifically, an adversary may hide a task from 
`schtasks /query` and the Task Scheduler by deleting the associated Security Descriptor (SD) 
registry value (where deletion of this value must be completed using SYSTEM 
permissions). Spearphishing for information is an 
attempt to trick targets into divulging information, frequently credentials or other actionable 
information. Spearphishing for information is an 
attempt to trick targets into divulging information, frequently credentials or other actionable 
information. Spearphishing for information is an attempt to trick targets into 
divulging information, frequently credentials or other actionable information. For 
example, in AWS environments, an adversary that creates a new identity provider for an AWS 
Organization will be able to federate into all of the AWS Organization member accounts without 
creating identities for each of the member accounts. Associated Tactics: TA0002