 .......... 49 
4.3.1 
Business Impact Information ........................................................................49 
4.3.2 
Technical Information ...................................................................................50 
4.4 
Recommendations .................................................................................................. Event correlation software can be of great value in 
automating the analysis process. Prioritizing the handling of individual incidents is a critical decision point in the incident response 
process. Organizations should use the lessons learned process to gain value from incidents.  in part to: 
– “Provide timely technical assistance to operators of agency information systems … including 
guidance on detecting and handling information security incidents … 
– Compile and analyze information about incidents that threaten information security … 
– Inform operators of agency information systems about current and potential information security 
threats, and vulnerabilities … .” 
 Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) 200, Minimum Security Requirements for Federal 
Information and Information Systems5, March 2006, which specifies minimum security requirements 
for Federal information and information systems, including incident response. Each organization needs a plan that meets its unique requirements, which relates to the 
organization’s mission, size, structure, and functions.  Organization’s ISP. The organization has multiple incident response teams, each 
responsible for a particular logical or physical segment of the organization. In a 
fully outsourced model, this person oversees and evaluates the outsourcer’s work. Every 
team member should have good problem solving skills and critical thinking abilities. 18  
Teams should word advisories so that they do not blame any person or organization for security issues.  Information Sharing. These 
workstations typically contain a set of removable hard drives that can be used for evidence storage. The jump kit should be ready to go at all times. Jump kits contain 
many of the same items listed in the bulleted lists above. For example, each jump kit typically includes a 
laptop, loaded with appropriate software (e.g., packet sniffers, digital forensics). Other important 
materials include backup devices, blank media, and basic networking equipment and cables. Note that because this laptop is special purpose, 
it is likely to use software other than the standard enterprise tools and configurations, and whenever 
possible the incident handlers should be allowed to specify basic technical requirements for these special-
purpose investigative laptops. In addition to an investigative laptop, each incident handler should also 
have a standard laptop, smart phone, or other computing device for writing reports, reading email, and 
performing other duties unrelated to the hands-on incident analysis. Organizations should require a baseline level of 
logging on all systems and a higher baseline level on critical systems. Section 3.2.4 discusses the value of centralized logging. For example, the 
organization might be contacted by a party claiming a system at the organization is attacking its 
systems. 3.2.5 Incident Documentation 
An incident response team that suspects that an incident has occurred should immediately start recording 
all facts regarding the incident.36 A logbook is an effective and simple medium for this,37 but laptops, 
                                                      
35  
More information on NTP is available at http://www.ntp.org/. Whenever possible, handlers should work in teams of at least 
two: one person can record and log events while the other person performs the technical tasks. Incidents should not be handled on a first-come, first-served basis as a result of resource 
limitations. Functional Impact Categories 
Category 
Definition 
None 
No effect to the organization’s ability to provide all services to all users 
Low 
Minimal effect; the organization can still provide all critical services to all users but has lost 
efficiency  
Medium 
Organization has lost the ability to provide a critical service to a subset of system users 
High 
Organization is no longer able to provide some critical services to any users 
 
Table 3-3 provides examples of possible information impact categories that describe the extent of 
information compromise that occurred during the incident. In this table, with the exception of the ‘None’ 
value, the categories are not mutually exclusive and the organization could choose more than one. Once a resource is successfully 
attacked, it is often attacked again, or other resources within the organization are attacked in a similar 
manner. More specific metrics, such as the number of port scans, are also of little value in 
organizational comparisons. Another 
valuable source of input is the owner of a resource that was attacked, in order to determine if the 
owner thinks the incident was handled efficiently and if the outcome was satisfactory.  Require a baseline level of logging and auditing on all systems, and a higher baseline level on all 
critical systems. Because of resource limitations, 
incidents should not be handled on a first-come, first-served basis. Collaboration with the trusted partner can enable an 
organization to respond to the incident more quickly and efficiently than an organization operating in 
isolation. Another incentive for information sharing is the 
ability to respond to incidents using techniques that may not be available to a single organization, 
especially if that organization is small to medium size. Because of the lack of standardization, they tend to 
require manual intervention and to be more resource-intensive to process than the alternative, partially 
automated methods. These transport mechanisms include, at a 
minimum, the transport protocol for exchanging the information, the architectural model for 
communicating with an information resource, and the applicable ports and domain names for accessing an 
information resource in a particular organization. See Section 4.3 for 
more information on granular information sharing. 4.3 
Granular Information Sharing 
Organizations need to balance the benefits of information sharing with the drawbacks of sharing sensitive 
information, ideally sharing the necessary information and only the necessary information with the 
appropriate parties. In this case, for a hypothetical incident an 
organization would report that it has a functional impact of medium, an information impact of none, and 
will require extended recoverability time. While organizations gain value from collecting their own internal indicators, they may gain additional 
value from analyzing indicators received from partner organizations and sharing internal indicators for 
external analysis and use.  Balance the benefits of information sharing with the drawbacks of sharing sensitive 
information. How would the organization attempt to prevent the worm from entering the organization before 
antivirus signatures were released? How would the handling of this incident differ if the vulnerability scanning were directed at the 
organization’s most critical hosts? html#800-128  
 
 
 
COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
64 
Data Exchange Specifications Applicable to Incident Handling 
Title 
Description 
Additional Information 
AI 
Asset Identification  
http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/ PubsNISTIRs.html#NIST-
IR-7693  
ARF  
Asset Results Format  
http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/ PubsNISTIRs.html#NIST-
IR-7694  
CAPEC  
Common Attack Pattern Enumeration 
and Classification  
http://capec.mitre.org/  
CCE  
Common Configuration Enumeration  
http://cce.mitre. When should a person involved with an incident contact law enforcement? The person should immediately stop using the system and contact the incident response team. For example, one person can perform actions while the other documents 
them. It is critical to identify such 
vulnerabilities and eliminate or otherwise mitigate them so that the incident does not recur. 1.1) 
 Added a mention of exercises (Section 3.1.1) 
 Revised the attack vectors (formerly incident categories) (Section 3.2.1) 
COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
70 
 Added SIEMs, network flows as common sources of precursors and indicators (Section 3.2.3) 
 Expanded discussion of eradication and recovery (Section 3.3.4) 
 Added a section on coordination and information sharing (Section 4) 
 Added a table of data exchange specifications applicable to incident handling (Appendix E)