 Introduction 
MITRE ATT&CK is a curated knowledge base and model for cyber adversary behavior, 
reflecting the various phases of an adversary’s attack lifecycle and the platforms they are known 
to target. At a high-level, ATT&CK is a behavioral model that consists of the following 
core components: 
• Tactics, denoting short-term, tactical adversary goals during an attack; 
• Techniques, describing the means by which adversaries achieve tactical goals; 
• Sub-techniques, describing more specific means by which adversaries achieve tactical 
goals at a lower level than techniques; and 
• Documented adversary usage of techniques, their procedures, and other metadata. ATT&CK is not an exhaustive enumeration of attack vectors against software. Behavioral Analytics Development – By going beyond traditional indicators of compromise 
(IoCs) or signatures of malicious activity, behavioral detection analytics can be used to identify 
potentially malicious activity within a system or network that may not rely on prior knowledge 
of adversary tools and indicators. It is independent of 
technology and models an adversary’s behavior as they attempt to gain access to an organization 
or entity through the technology they leverage, spanning multiple domains. This tactic is often used in conjunction with initial access as the means of 
executing code once access is obtained, and lateral movement to expand access to remote 
systems on a network. There could be 
many ways of detecting a (sub-)technique but 
ATT&CK and MITRE do not endorse any particular 
vendor solution. Mitigation 
fields are populated on a (sub-)technique page when 
a mitigation object is associated to a 
(sub-)technique.. The relationship describes the 
details of how a specific mitigation can be applied to 
the (sub-)technique. Mitigation recommendations 
remain vendor agnostic, recommending the general 
method or capability class rather than a specific tool. Mitigation may not always be possible for a given 
(sub-)technique and is documented as such if no 
relationships to a given (sub-)technique are present. The change was driven by the need to fix some of the 
technique abstraction level issues that occurred as ATT&CK grew over the years. • Malware - Commercial, custom closed source, or open source software intended to be 
used for malicious purposes by adversaries. They also do not take into account how legitimate software can be used for 
malicious purposes. Exploits and malicious software are useful to an adversary toolkit, but to fully understand their 
utility, it’s necessary to understand the context in which they can be used to achieve a goal. Goals such as initial access, discovery, 
and credential access are commonly used to gain and expand access within an environment with 
an ultimate objective of stealing information through collection and exfiltration. One example of the former is 
Credential Dumping [10] for Credential Access where dumping credentials is one method of 
gaining access to new credentials—and credentials can be dumped in several different ways. • It applies to Windows and Linux systems and represents benign functionality used by 
legitimate software that can be used by adversaries for malicious purposes. Conclusions: 
• The core feature of this technique is loading malicious code within an existing live 
process. The resulting code execution can be used for a 
number of purposes, including adding or modifying information, gaining access to a system, 
causing the server to download and execute other code which may result in persistence, 
credential access, privilege escalation, collection, and exfiltration. • Adversaries have been known to use SQLi as a means of gaining access to externally 
available web servers. An example is for 
initial access in a network compromise by compromising an externally facing application. Available: https://medium.com/mitre-attack/2020-attack-roadmap-4820d30b38ba. [2]  The MITRE Corporation, "Common Attack Pattern Enumeration and Classification," 21 
February 2018. Available: https://medium.com/mitre-attack/how-to-be-a-savvy-attack-consumer-
63e45b8e94c9. [Accessed 16 March 2020].