Data extracted from: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mitre-attack/attack-stix-
data/master/enterprise-attack/enterprise-attack.json 
 
Obs. Adversaries commonly attempt to mimic 
normal, expected traffic to avoid detection. TA0040: Impact 
  Description: The adversary is trying to manipulate, interrupt, or destroy your systems and data. Adversaries may attempt to discover information about the services enabled throughout the 
environment. Associated Tactics: TA0006 
 
T1485: Data Destruction 
  Description: Adversaries may destroy data and files on specific systems or in large numbers 
on a network to interrupt availability to systems, services, and network resources. In cloud environments, adversaries may leverage access to delete cloud storage objects, 
machine images, database instances, and other infrastructure crucial to operations to damage 
an organization or their customers. This kind of targeted campaign is often referred to a 
strategic web compromise or watering hole attack. Associated Tactics: TA0011 
 
T1499: Endpoint Denial of Service 
  Description: Adversaries may perform Endpoint Denial of Service (DoS) attacks to degrade or 
block the availability of services to users. Guardrails ensure that a payload only executes against an intended target and 
reduces collateral damage from an adversary’s campaign. (Citation: Bugcrowd Replay Attack)(Citation: Comparitech Replay 
Attack)(Citation: Microsoft Midnight Blizzard Replay Attack) 
 
Such exploitation has been demonstrated in cloud environments as well. to gain access to credentials that can be used to access systems, 
services, and network resources. Associated Tactics: TA0005 
 
T1498: Network Denial of Service 
  Description: Adversaries may perform Network Denial of Service (DoS) attacks to degrade or 
block the availability of targeted resources to users. Adversaries may send victims emails containing malicious attachments or links, typically to 
execute malicious code on victim systems. ** 
 
Adversaries may use more than one remote access tool with varying command and control 
protocols or credentialed access to remote services so they can maintain access if an access 
mechanism is detected or mitigated. Stopping critical services or processes can inhibit or stop 
response to an incident or aid in the adversary's overall objectives to cause damage to the 
environment. Adversaries may attempt to subvert these trust mechanisms. Associated Tactics: TA0002 
 
T1529: System Shutdown/Reboot 
  Description: Adversaries may shutdown/reboot systems to interrupt access to, or aid in the 
destruction of, those systems. are present until after the malicious payload is 
fetched. Users may be subjected to social engineering to get them to execute malicious code by, for 
example, opening a malicious document file or link. With a botnet at their disposal, 
adversaries may perform follow-on activity such as large-scale 
[Phishing](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1566) or Distributed Denial of Service 
(DDoS). (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire)(Citation: Krebs-Anna)(Citation: Krebs-
Bazaar)(Citation: Krebs-Booter) 
  Parent Technique: T1583 
  Associated Tactics: TA0042 
 
T1584.005: Botnet 
  Description: Adversaries may compromise numerous third-party systems to form a botnet that 
can be used during targeting. A botnet is a network of compromised systems that can be 
instructed to perform coordinated tasks. Adversaries may further interrupt efforts to track their infrastructure by using varied registration 
information and purchasing domains with different domain registrars. Custom certificates may be used in an attempt to intercept 
HTTPS traffic. (Citation: 
Linux Signal Man)  These interrupt signals may also be used by defensive tools and/or analysts 
to pause or terminate specified running processes. Installation of a root certificate on a compromised system would give an adversary a way to 
degrade the security of that system. Purchased ads may attempt to impersonate or spoof well-known 
brands. Adversaries may also 
access externally facing Exchange services, Office 365, or Google Workspace to access email 
using credentials or access tokens. (Citation: Unit 42 Leaked Environment Variables 2024) 
 
In addition to incurring potential financial costs or availability disruptions, this technique may 
cause reputational damage if a victim’s bandwidth is used for illegal activities. With a sufficient level of access, such accounts may be used to establish secondary 
credentialed access that does not require persistent remote access tools to be deployed on the 
system. Adversaries may attempt to 
remove such artifacts. Conditional access policies are additional verifications used 
by identity providers and identity and access management systems to determine whether a user 
should be granted access to a resource. This DoS attack may also reduce the availability and 
functionality of the targeted system(s) and network. This kind of targeted 
campaign is referred to a strategic web compromise or watering hole attack. After the process is 
hijacked and malicious code is executed, the <code>KernelCallbackTable</code> may also be 
restored to its original state by the rest of the malicious payload. Adversaries can use scripts or manually run the commands <code>launchctl load 
-w "%s/Library/LaunchAgents/%s"</code> or <code>/bin/launchctl load</code> to execute 
[Launch Agent](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1543/001)s or [Launch 
Daemon](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1543/004)s.(Citation: Sofacy Komplex 
Trojan)(Citation: 20 macOS Common Tools and Techniques) 
 
  Associated Tactics: TA0002 
 
T1485.001: Lifecycle-Triggered Deletion 
  Description: Adversaries may modify the lifecycle policies of a cloud storage bucket to destroy 
all objects stored within. An adversary accomplishes a reflection attack by 
sending packets to reflectors with the spoofed address of the victim. Access to Registry keys is controlled through 
access control lists and user permissions. In this case, the malicious emails contain links. Associated Tactics: TA0003 
 
T1546.005: Trap 
  Description: Adversaries may establish persistence by executing malicious content triggered 
by an interrupt signal. The <code>trap</code> command allows programs and shells to specify 
commands that will be executed upon receiving interrupt signals. Malicious software can include payloads, 
droppers, post-compromise tools, backdoors, and a variety of other malicious content. Associated Tactics: TA0002