 The posts, inspired by Katie Nickels’ Sp4rkcon talk “Putting MITRE  
ATT&CK into Action with What You Have, Where You Are,” were written by members of  
the ATT&CK team and focused on what we consider ATT&CK’s four primary use cases. GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Threat Intelligence | Katie Nickels 
Example: If you were a pharmaceutical company, you could search in our Search bar or  
on our Groups page to identify that APT19 is one group that has targeted your sector. LEVEL 2 
If you have a team of threat analysts who regularly review information about adversaries, 
a next-level action you can take is to map intelligence to ATT&CK yourself rather than 
using what others have already mapped. Find the behavior—Think about the adversary’s action in a broader way than just the 
atomic indicator (like an IP address) they used. For the SOCKS5 connection example, establishing 
a connection to later communicate would fall under the Command and Control tactic. Compare your results to other analysts—Of course, you might have a different  
interpretation of a behavior than another analyst. Taking the above process, you can  
map both internal and external information to ATT&CK, including incident response data,  
reports from OSINT or threat intel subscriptions, real-time alerts, and your organization’s  
historic information. Rather than identifying things that are known to be bad and blocking them, ATT&CK-
based analytics involve collecting log and event data about the things happening on your systems 
and using that to identify the suspicious behaviors described in ATT&CK. For example, you can find their  
list of attacks for Regsvr32, including Squiblydoo. Of course, if you’re already doing red  
teaming, feel free to run the attacks you know yourself (on systems where you have  
permission!) and try to develop analytics for those! Bonus Level 0 Content: Really want to create your own analytics and run your own attacks  
but don’t have your own network? A general pattern to follow is to write the search to detect malicious behavior, revise it to  
filter out false positives, make sure it still detects the malicious behavior, and then repeat  
to reduce other sorts of false positives. ANALYTIC DEVELOPMENT WORKFLOW 
| 15 | 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Detection and Analytics | John Wunder 
LEVEL 3 
Feel confident that you’re cranking out quality analytics to detect attacks from Atomic  
Red Team? Test that confidence and improve your defenses by doing some purple  
teaming! In the real world, adversaries don’t just carry out cookie cutter attacks copy/pasted  
from some book. Maybe you heard about mimikatz and write an analytic to detect  
mimikatz.exe on the command line or Invoke-Mimikatz via Powershell. It’s a great way to rapidly improve the  
quality of your analytics because it measures your ability to detect the attacks that  
adversaries actually use. HEATMAP WITH CAR AND CUSTOM-DEVELOPED ANALYTICS  
And of course, over time, you’ll want to expand the scope of the things that you care  
about. Continuing the theme of the previous chapters, this section will be broken up by levels based on  
your team’s level of sophistication and what resources you have access to: 
Square Level 1 for those just starting out who may not have many resources 
Square Level 2 for those who are mid-level teams starting to mature 
Square Level 3 for those with more advanced cybersecurity teams and resources 
For those unfamiliar with it, adversary emulation is a type of red team engagement that mimics  
a known threat to an organization by blending in threat intelligence to define what actions  
and behaviors the red team uses. So, we open up our command prompt, copy and paste the command, add in the 
computer name, and execute the command. It allows the operator to pick one technique or chain many together when  
building the test, which allows you to start to automate sequences of behaviors for your  
testing rather than manually executing single Atomic Tests. Luckily, sometimes mapping techniques can be as simple as searching the command 
used on the ATT&CK website. For example, if we’ve used the “whoami” command in 
our red team operation, we can search that on the ATT&CK website and find that two 
techniques likely apply: System Owner/User Discovery (T1033) and Command-Line  
Interface (T1059). SEARCH FUNCTION ON HTTPS://ATTACK.MITRE.ORG 
Another helpful resource to get you started mapping red team procedures to ATT&CK is  
the APT3 Adversary Emulation Field Manual, which breaks out command-by-command  
actions that APT3 has used, all mapped to ATT&CK. Identify the highest-priority gaps in your current coverage 
3. A good way to identify how you’re mitigating techniques is to go through each of 
your SOC’s policies, preventative tools, and security controls, then map them to the 
ATT&CK technique(s) they may impact, and then add those techniques to your heatmap 
of coverage. Katie has worked in network defense, incident response, and 
cyber threat intelligence for nearly a decade. | 41 | 
|  Solving Problems for a Safer World