 ............................................................................................. 3 
4.3 
Benefits of a structured approach ....................................................................................................... 4 
4.4 
Adaptability ............................................................................................................................................ 5 
4.5 
Phases ..................................................................... These are important considerations if legal prosecution or 
disciplinary action might follow. The data collected to identify the occurrence frequency of the 
various threat types will greatly aid the quality of the threat assessment. 4.5 Phases 
To achieve the objectives outlined in Clause 4.2, information security incident management consists of the 
following five distinct phases: 
 
Plan and prepare, 
 
Detection and reporting, 
 
Assessment and decision, 
 
Responses, and 
 
Lessons learnt. A high-level view of these phases is shown in Figure 2. In some organizations, the scheme may be referred to as an information security incident response 
plan (see Clause 5.4). b) 
To indicate senior management commitment to the need for proper preparation and response to 
information security incidents, i.e. Each operating procedure should clearly identify the steps to be undertaken and by whom. The ISIRT goes through different maturity stages and often adjustments to the organizational model are 
adopted based on the specific scenario faced by the organization. i) 
taking precautions commensurate with assessed risks for ensuring that electronic communication, 
whether internet or non-internet, cannot be eavesdropped and stays available while the system, service 
and/or network is under attack (this may require pre-planned alternative communications mechanisms 
being in place), 
j) 
ensuring the collection of all data about the information system, service and/or network, and all data 
processed, 
 k) 
using cryptographic integrity control to help in determining whether and what parts of the system, service 
and/or network, and what data, were changed, if commensurate with assessed risks, 
l) 
facilitating the archiving and securing of collected information (for example, by applying digital signatures 
to logs and other evidence before off-line storage in read-only media such as CD or DVD ROM), 
m) enabling the preparation of printouts (e.g. It is increasingly common for organizations to create a standard baseline image from the installation 
media and use that image as the clean basis for creating systems. Thus as far as possible, no 
technical means (software and hardware) necessary for responding to an information security incident should 
rely in their operations on the organization's ‘mainstream’ systems, services and/or networks, proportionate to 
the assessed risks. In some cases, it may be desirable for the organization to include awareness detail specifically about 
information security incident management in other training programs (for example, personnel orientation 
programs or general corporate security awareness programs). This awareness approach may provide 
valuable context relevant to particular groups of people, and improves training program effectiveness and 
efficiency. Before the information security incident management scheme becomes operational, the organization should 
ensure that all relevant personnel are familiar with the procedures involved in the detection and reporting of 
information security events, and selected personnel are very knowledgeable about the subsequent activities. This should be followed up by regular awareness briefings and training courses. The training should be 
supported by specific exercises and testing for PoC and ISIRT members, and information security personnel 
and specific administrators. In addition, the awareness and training programs should be complemented by the establishment and 
operations of ‘hot line’ support from information security incident management personnel, in order to minimize 
delays in reporting and handling information security events, incidents and vulnerabilities. Periodic tests should be 
organized to check processes/procedures and to verify how the ISIRT responds to severe complex incidents, 
through the simulation of realistic attacks, failures or faults. Particular attention should be paid to the creation 
of the simulated scenarios, which should be based on real new information security threats. Tests should 
involve not only the ISIRT, but all the internal and external organizations that are involved in the management 
of information security incidents. Information 
security incident management in operation comprises three main phases: Detection and reporting, 
Assessment and decision (see Clause 7) and Responses (see Clause 8) phases. These phases and their 
associated activities were introduced in Clause 4.5. The following clauses predominantly address the handling of information security events and incidents. The 
organization should ensure that the appropriate personnel deal with reported information security 
vulnerabilities in a similar manner to how non-information security faults are handled, possibly with 
assessment and resolution using technical personnel (who may or may not be members of the ISIRT). Figure 3 shows all of the operational phases and related activities. The information reported 
during each activity should be as complete as possible at the time, to ensure that there is a good base 
available for the assessments and decisions to be made, and of course the actions taken. The information 
reported during each activity should be as complete as possible at the time, to ensure that there is a good 
base available for the assessments and decisions to be made, and of course the actions taken. However, the most likely situation is that the 
information security incident needs to be referred directly to the ISIRT for further assessment and action. b) 
Activity to assign internal resources and identify external resources in order to respond to an incident. The information reported during each activity should be as complete as possible 
at the time, to ensure that there is a good base available for the assessments and decisions to be made, and 
of course the actions taken. It is vitally important to follow planned processes and record action. Other measures to decrease the possibility of re-occurrence or similar occurrence of an IT 
information security incident may include changing system passwords and disabling unused services. Another area of response activity may involve monitoring the IT system, service and/or network. Such monitoring may also reveal a greater depth to the information security incident, and 
identify other IT systems that were compromised. The strategy should have identified the following: 
a) 
the required preventive, resilience and crisis management measures, 
b) 
the required organizational structure and responsibilities for responding to crisis, and 
BS ISO/IEC 27035:2011
ISO/IEC 27035:2011(E) 
© ISO/IEC 2011 – All rights reserved 
37
 
c) 
the required structure and outline content for the crisis management plan or plans. q) 
Activity to provide expert support to any disciplinary or legal action as required. This may need to occur at a number of stages, for 
example when an information security incident is confirmed as real, when it is confirmed as under control, 
when it is designated for crisis activities, when it is closed and when post incident review has been completed 
and conclusions reached. This may be for a decision to be made on 
recommended actions to deal with an information security incident or for further assessment to determine 
what actions are required. b) 
Activity to identify the lessons learnt from information security incidents and vulnerabilities. Dependent on the lessons learned, these could include the need for rapid 
material updates for, and delivery of, security awareness briefings (for users as well as other personnel), 
and rapid revision and issue of security guidelines and/or standards. Thus, an organization should analyze the data in the information security 
event/incident/vulnerability database on a regular basis in order to do the following: 
a) 
identify trends/patterns, 
b) 
identify areas of concern, and 
c) 
analyze where preventive action could be taken to reduce the likelihood of future incidents. Relevant information acquired throughout the course of an information security incident should be channelled 
into the trend/pattern analysis (similarly to the way reported information security vulnerabilities are handled). These could be technical (including physical) controls, and may include the need for rapid material 
updates for, and delivery of, security awareness briefings (for users as well as other personnel), and rapid 
revision and issue of security guidelines and/or standards. Following an information security incident or a resolved vulnerability, if 
relevant an organization should update its information security policies and procedures to take into account 
information gleaned and any problem issues identified during the course of the incident management process. c) 
Were any procedures or tools identified that would have been of assistance in the response process? e) 
Was the communication of the incident to all relevant parties effective throughout the detection, reporting 
and response process? A.13.2.3 Collection of evidence 
Control: Where a follow-up action against a person or organization 
after an information security incident involves legal action (either 
civil or criminal), evidence should be collected, retained, and 
presented to conform to the rules for evidence laid down in the 
relevant jurisdiction(s). Some examples of technically stimulated unauthorized access incidents include: 
 
attempts to retrieve password files, 
 
buffer overflow attacks to attempt to gain privileged (e.g., system administrator) access to a target, 
 
exploitation of protocol vulnerabilities to hijack or misdirect legitimate network connections, 
 
attempts to elevate privileges to resources or information beyond what a user or administrator already 
legitimately possesses. This type of incident 
involves reconnaissance, with the goal being to identify the: 
 
existence of a target, and understand the network topology surrounding it, and with whom the target 
routinely communicates, and 
 
potential vulnerabilities in the target or its immediate network environment that could be exploited. Network scanning, exploitation of vulnerability, exploitation 
of backdoor, login attempts, interference, DoS, etc. Exploitation of vulnerability exploits and makes use of 
information system defects such as configurations, 
protocols or programs. Exploitation of backdoor makes use of the backdoors or 
harmful programs left in software and hardware system 
design processes. Denial of actions is when someone's denies what he/she 
has done. These actions may result in fines and/or prison sentences. The information you provide will be used to initiate appropriate assessment, which will determine whether the 
event is to be classified as an information security incident or not, and if it is any remedial measures 
necessary to prevent or limit any loss or damage. 10 Technical attack 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Network scanning 
        Exploitation of vulnerability 
        Exploitation of backdoor 
 
Login attempts, Interference 
        Denial of Service (DoS) 
        Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8.11 Breach of rule 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Unauthorized use of resources 
        Breach of copyright 
        Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8. VALUE 
GUIDELINES 
COST 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
5 
This is for more details of the components/assets affected is available as investigation and analysis proceeds (in the 
early stages of event and incident analysis normally only ‘high level’ information will be collected). ACTIONS TAKEN TO RESOLVE INCIDENT 
(e.g. ‘no action’, ‘in-house action’, ‘internal 
investigation’, ‘external’ investigation by ...’) 
 
17. ACTIONS PLANNED TO RESOLVE INCIDENT 
(e.g. ACTIONS OUTSTANDING 
(e.g. pdf 
[16] 
TERENA's Incident Object Description Exchange Format Data Model and XML Implementation 
(IODEF) (produced by IETF), RFC 5070 
[17] 
Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) RFC 3227, Guidelines for evidence collection and archiving 
[18] 
CESG GOVCERTUK, Incident Response Guidelines 
(2008), http://www.govcertuk.gov.uk/pdfs/incident_response_guidelines.pdf 
                                                      
7 To be published.  Breach Notification in Incident Handling (2008) 
[32] 
SANS Institute, Baselines and Incident Handling (2008) 
[33] 
SANS Institute, Documentation is to Incident Response as an Air Tank is to Scuba Diving (2007) 
[34] 
SANS Institute, Creating and Managing an Incident Response Team for a Large Company (2007) 
[35] 
SANS Institute, An Incident Handling Process for Small and Medium Businesses (2007) 
[36] 
SANS Institute, Incident Management 101 Preparation & Initial Response (aka Identification) (2005) 
[37] 
SANS Institute, Building an Incident Response Program To Suit Your Business (2003) 
[38] 
ISACA, COBIT 4.1 (Section DS5.11), www.isaca. This does not preclude the free
use, in the course of implementing the standard of necessary details such as
symbols, and size, type or grade designations. Tel: +44 (0)20 8996 7070
Email: copyright@bsigroup.com