 : 10AOH08A-JC 
The views, opinions and/or findings 
contained in this report are those of The 
MITRE Corporation and should not be 
construed as an official government position, 
policy, or decision, unless designated by 
other documentation. The ATT&CK knowledge base is used as a foundation for the 
development of specific threat models and methodologies in the private sector, in government, 
and in the cybersecurity product and service community. ATT&CK Group Model .................................................................................................. 14 
Table 4. Introduction 
MITRE ATT&CK is a curated knowledge base and model for cyber adversary behavior, 
reflecting the various phases of an adversary’s attack lifecycle and the platforms they are known 
to target. At a high-level, ATT&CK is a behavioral model that consists of the following 
core components: 
• Tactics, denoting short-term, tactical adversary goals during an attack; 
• Techniques, describing the means by which adversaries achieve tactical goals; 
• Sub-techniques, describing more specific means by which adversaries achieve tactical 
goals at a lower level than techniques; and 
• Documented adversary usage of techniques, their procedures, and other metadata. ATT&CK is not an exhaustive enumeration of attack vectors against software. Adversary emulation focuses on the ability of an organization to verify detection 
and/or mitigation of the adversarial activity at all applicable points in their lifecycle. Behavioral Analytics Development – By going beyond traditional indicators of compromise 
(IoCs) or signatures of malicious activity, behavioral detection analytics can be used to identify 
potentially malicious activity within a system or network that may not rely on prior knowledge 
of adversary tools and indicators. Defensive Gap Assessment – A defensive gap assessment allows an organization to determine 
what parts of its enterprise lack defenses and/or visibility. ATT&CK is useful for understanding and documenting adversary group profiles from a 
behavioral perspective that is agnostic of the tools the group may use. Operationalizing ATT&CK for an organization also encompasses determining what it means for 
you to have “ATT&CK coverage”. It is independent of 
technology and models an adversary’s behavior as they attempt to gain access to an organization 
or entity through the technology they leverage, spanning multiple domains. Contributor 
Tag 
List of non-MITRE contributors (individual and/or 
organization) from first to most recent that 
contributed information on, about, or supporting the 
development of a (sub-)technique. There should be 
enough information and references to point toward 
useful defensive methodologies. There could be 
many ways of detecting a (sub-)technique but 
ATT&CK and MITRE do not endorse any particular 
vendor solution. Mitigation 
fields are populated on a (sub-)technique page when 
a mitigation object is associated to a 
(sub-)technique.. The relationship describes the 
details of how a specific mitigation can be applied to 
the (sub-)technique. Mitigation recommendations 
remain vendor agnostic, recommending the general 
method or capability class rather than a specific tool. Mitigation may not always be possible for a given 
(sub-)technique and is documented as such if no 
relationships to a given (sub-)technique are present. ATT&CK Group Model 
Data Item 
Type 
Description 
Name* 
Field 
The name of the adversary group. It may contain dates of activity, suspected 
attribution details, targeted industries, and notable 
events that are attributed to the group’s activities. Associated Group 
Descriptions 
Field 
Section that can be used to describe the associated 
group names with references to the report used to tie 
the associated group to the primary group name. • Malware - Commercial, custom closed source, or open source software intended to be 
used for malicious purposes by adversaries. Contributor 
Tag 
List of non-MITRE contributors (individual and/or 
organization) from first to most recent that 
contributed information on, about, or supporting the 
development of a software profile. This information is populated 
from the associated group entry. The information may be used in different ways 
depending on where the information comes from and the vantage the contributing organization 
or individual has. They also do not take into account how legitimate software can be used for 
malicious purposes. The high-level concepts like 
Control, Execute, and Maintain are further broken down into more descriptive categories where 
individual actions on a system can be defined and categorized. Exploits and malicious software are useful to an adversary toolkit, but to fully understand their 
utility, it’s necessary to understand the context in which they can be used to achieve a goal. For example, an attacker modifying the balance of a bank account 
 
25 
©2020 The MITRE Corporation. These sub-techniques tend to 
describe how individual components of the platform are abused by adversaries. o Are the differences distinguishing characteristics of that group? We do not accept leaked or classified information from any corporation or 
government as the basis for threat intelligence within ATT&CK. Some groups in ATT&CK have multiple names associated with related sets of activity due to 
various organizations tracking the same (or similar) set(s) of activities by different names. There could be several nuances that lead an analyst and organization to categorize 
adversary activity separately, such as differences in visibility into a group’s suspected activity. • It applies to Windows and Linux systems and represents benign functionality used by 
legitimate software that can be used by adversaries for malicious purposes. Conclusions: 
• The core feature of this technique is loading malicious code within an existing live 
process. • There are several variations of this technique and the core behavior is distinct enough 
from other related methods of defense evasion and privilege escalation to warrant an 
individual entry. Available: https://medium.com/mitre-attack/2020-attack-roadmap-4820d30b38ba. [2]  The MITRE Corporation, "Common Attack Pattern Enumeration and Classification," 21 
February 2018. Available: https://medium.com/mitre-attack/how-to-be-a-savvy-attack-consumer-
63e45b8e94c9. [Accessed 16 March 2020].