 For each use case, the authors laid out advice on how an organization could get started  
with ATT&CK based on available resources and overall maturity. Adam Pennington  
Principal Cybersecurity Engineer  
ATT&CK Blog Editor in Chief  
MITRE 
attack.mitre.org 
medium.com/mitre-attack 
twitter.com/MITREattack 
linkedin.com/showcase/mitre-att&ck 
| 1 | 
1 Threat Intelligence 
Katie Nickels 
Based on feedback from ATT&CK users, both at the first ATT&CKcon and from other avenues,  
we’ve learned a lot. You might choose a group from those we’ve mapped on our website based on what  
organizations they’ve previously targeted. SEARCH FOR “PHARMACEUTICAL” 
DESCRIPTION OF APT19 GROUP 
From there, you can bring up that group’s page to look at the techniques they’ve used  
(based solely on open source reporting we’ve mapped) so you can learn more about  
them. Let’s share it with our defenders, since this is a group who has targeted  
our sector and we want to defend against them. Identifying some behaviors they’ve used helps   
you inform your defenders about how they can try to detect that group. 2 Detection and Analytics 
John Wunder 
Hopefully you had a chance to read in Chapter 1 on getting started using ATT&CK for threat  
intelligence, which walked through understanding what adversaries are doing to attack you and  
how to use that knowledge to prioritize what to defend. | 12 | 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Detection and Analytics | John Wunder 
If you’ve installed Sigma and you’re in its directory you can run this command to get (as  
an example) the ELK/WinLogBeats query: 
sigmac --target es-qs -c tools/config/winlogbeat.yml rules/windows/process_ 
creation/win_susp_wmi_execution.yml 
RESULTS FROM RUNNING WMI ANALYTIC AGAINST BRAWL DATA  
Your job now is to look through each result and figure out whether it’s malicious. If  
you used the BRAWL dataset, it’s all pretty malicious: it tries to run and.exe, and upon  
further exploring the related events, and.exe had just been moved to that host over SMB  
and added to the autorun registry keys for persistence. Your goal shouldn’t be to get to zero false positives; it should  
be to reduce them as much as possible while still ensuring that you’ll catch the malicious  
behavior. For example, you can find their  
list of attacks for Regsvr32, including Squiblydoo. Of course, if you’re already doing red  
teaming, feel free to run the attacks you know yourself (on systems where you have  
permission!) and try to develop analytics for those! Bonus Level 0 Content: Really want to create your own analytics and run your own attacks  
but don’t have your own network? | 14 | 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Detection and Analytics | John Wunder 
OUTPUT FROM RUNNING THE SQUIBLYDOO ATTACK TO LAUNCH CALC.EXE  
Once you’ve run the attack, look inside your SIEM to see what log data was generated. At this stage, you’re looking for things that make this malicious event look distinctive. A general pattern to follow is to write the search to detect malicious behavior, revise it to  
filter out false positives, make sure it still detects the malicious behavior, and then repeat  
to reduce other sorts of false positives. ANALYTIC DEVELOPMENT WORKFLOW 
| 15 | 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Detection and Analytics | John Wunder 
LEVEL 3 
Feel confident that you’re cranking out quality analytics to detect attacks from Atomic  
Red Team? In the real world, adversaries don’t just carry out cookie cutter attacks copy/pasted  
from some book. They can then find and execute an attack that  
will evade that analytic. In the end, you want to be developing a more  
and more comprehensive set of detections so that you can detect more and more of the  
things that adversaries do to attack us—and ATT&CK gives you the scorecard to do so. | 20 | 
 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Adversary Emulation and Red Teaming | Blake Strom, Tim Schulz, and Katie Nickels 
Atomic Red Team can be used to test individual techniques and procedures to verify that 
behavioral analytics and monitoring capabilities are working as expected. | 21 | 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Adversary Emulation and Red Teaming | Blake Strom, Tim Schulz, and Katie Nickels 
These singular tests allow for a laser focus on individual ATT&CK techniques, which 
makes building ATT&CK-based defensive coverage easier to approach because you can 
start with a single test for a single technique and expand from there. It allows the operator to pick one technique or chain many together when  
building the test, which allows you to start to automate sequences of behaviors for your  
testing rather than manually executing single Atomic Tests. Armed with your individual commands, scripts, and tools mapped to  
ATT&CK, you can now plan your engagement. with known threats that may target  
the organization. These purple techniques give us a place to start to use a tool we already have and  
perform techniques that are a priority to our organization. Gather threat intel—Select an adversary based on the threats to your organization 
and work with the CTI team to analyze intelligence about what the adversary has 
done. Combine what’s based on what your organization knows in addition to publicly 
available intel to document the adversary behaviors, what they go after, whether they 
do smash and grab or low and slow. Consider: 
Square How did the threat group use this technique? Square Did the group vary which technique was used based on the environment context? Square Leveraging Microsoft EMET’s Attack Surface Reduction rules can make it harder to 
use RunDLL32. The ATT&CK knowledge base is used as 
a foundation for the development of specific threat models and methodologies in the 
private sector, in government, and in the cybersecurity product and service community. ATT&CK is open and available to any person or organization for use at no charge. Through public-private partnerships, as well as the operation of federally funded R&D 
centers, we work across government to tackle challenges to the safety, stability, and 
well-being of our nation. | 41 | 
|  Solving Problems for a Safer World