 For those CTI teams who have a couple of analysts, mapping information to ATT&CK  
yourself can be a good way to ensure you’re getting the most relevant information to  
meet your organization’s requirements. From there, you can pass the ATT&CK-mapped  
adversary information to your defenders to inform their defenses, as we discussed above. LEVEL 3 
If your CTI team is advanced, you can start to map more information to ATT&CK, and  
then use that information to prioritize how you defend. Taking the above process, you can  
map both internal and external information to ATT&CK, including incident response data,  
reports from OSINT or threat intel subscriptions, real-time alerts, and your organization’s  
historic information. (All this is based solely on publicly available information that we’ve  
mapped, which is only a subset of what those groups have done.) Those data sources describe the types of data that 
could give you visibility into the given technique. Once you’ve got data in your SIEM you’re ready to try some analytics. If you’re looking at your own  
enterprise data, it’s hopefully benign or known red team data—if not, maybe stop reading  
this chapter and figure out what you’re dealing with. For example, you can find their  
list of attacks for Regsvr32, including Squiblydoo. Of course, if you’re already doing red  
teaming, feel free to run the attacks you know yourself (on systems where you have  
permission!) and try to develop analytics for those! Bonus Level 0 Content: Really want to create your own analytics and run your own attacks  
but don’t have your own network? A general pattern to follow is to write the search to detect malicious behavior, revise it to  
filter out false positives, make sure it still detects the malicious behavior, and then repeat  
to reduce other sorts of false positives. ANALYTIC DEVELOPMENT WORKFLOW 
| 15 | 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Detection and Analytics | John Wunder 
LEVEL 3 
Feel confident that you’re cranking out quality analytics to detect attacks from Atomic  
Red Team? Each of these tests contains information about what the 
technique is, the platforms supported, and how to execute the test. CALDERA is an automated adversary  
emulation system created by MITRE that has many built-in behaviors mapped to ATT&CK  
techniques. It allows the operator to pick one technique or chain many together when  
building the test, which allows you to start to automate sequences of behaviors for your  
testing rather than manually executing single Atomic Tests. For example, if we’ve used the “whoami” command in 
our red team operation, we can search that on the ATT&CK website and find that two 
techniques likely apply: System Owner/User Discovery (T1033) and Command-Line  
Interface (T1059). All processes spawned by AcroRd32.exe 
3. Any processes named tscon.exe 
4. But if you’re not pulling in the right data sources, what should you do? Once you feel comfortable with the process, perform a data source analysis and come  
up with a heatmap of which techniques you could detect given the data sources you’re  
pulling in. Square What data sources does the tool monitor? Adam has presented and published in a number of venues including 
FIRST CTI, USENIX Security, and ACM Transactions on Information and System Security. | 41 | 
|  Solving Problems for a Safer World