 ISO/IEC 27035 was prepared by Joint Technical Committee ISO/IEC JTC 1, Information technology, 
Subcommittee SC 27, IT Security techniques. 3) Technology watch to detect new kinds of threats and attacks. h) 
Activity to test the use of the information security incident management scheme, its processes and 
procedures. b) 
An overview of information security event detection, reporting and collection of relevant information, and 
how this information should be used to determine information security incidents. c) 
The relevant sections should outline scheme processes, and related infrastructure. taking an information system off-line or even shutting it down). ii) 
Collecting the information on information security events. Another approach that may be adopted by the ISIRT is to win users' trust through transparency and mature 
processes. In some cases, it may be desirable for the organization to include awareness detail specifically about 
information security incident management in other training programs (for example, personnel orientation 
programs or general corporate security awareness programs). This awareness approach may provide 
valuable context relevant to particular groups of people, and improves training program effectiveness and 
efficiency. Before the information security incident management scheme becomes operational, the organization should 
ensure that all relevant personnel are familiar with the procedures involved in the detection and reporting of 
information security events, and selected personnel are very knowledgeable about the subsequent activities. This should be followed up by regular awareness briefings and training courses. In addition, the awareness and training programs should be complemented by the establishment and 
operations of ‘hot line’ support from information security incident management personnel, in order to minimize 
delays in reporting and handling information security events, incidents and vulnerabilities. The 
organization should ensure that the appropriate personnel deal with reported information security 
vulnerabilities in a similar manner to how non-information security faults are handled, possibly with 
assessment and resolution using technical personnel (who may or may not be members of the ISIRT). g) 
Activity to register in an Incident Tracking System. When considering the potential or actual adverse effects of an information security incident on the business of 
an organization, the following are some examples: 
a) 
unauthorized disclosure of information, 
b) 
unauthorized modification of information, 
c) 
repudiation of information, 
d) 
unavailability of information and/or service, 
e) 
destruction of information and/or service, and 
f) 
reduced performance of service. It is vitally important to follow planned processes and record action. Information security 
forensic analysis IT based tools should comply with standards such that their accuracy cannot be legally 
challenged, and should be kept up-to-date in line with technology changes. j) 
Activity to analyze system/service/network and application logs. If any information pertaining to information 
security incidents is to be released to the press it should be done in accordance with organization's 
information dissemination policy. DoS incidents caused by non-technical means, resulting in loss of information, service and/or facilities, could 
be caused, for example, by: 
 
breaches of physical security arrangements resulting in theft or wilful damage and destruction of 
equipment, 
 
accidental damage to hardware (and/or its location) by fire or water damage/flood, 
 
extreme environmental conditions, for example high operating temperatures (e.g. due to air conditioning 
failure), 
 
system malfunctions or overload, 
 
uncontrolled system changes, 
 
malfunctions of software or hardware. contrary to law or organization policy), 
could be caused, for example, by: 
 
breaches of physical security arrangements resulting in unauthorized access to information, and theft of 
data storage equipment that contains important data, for example encryption keys, 
 
poorly and/or misconfigured operating systems due to uncontrolled system changes, or malfunctions of 
software or hardware, resulting in internal or external personnel gaining access to information for which 
they have no authority. Fire, water, electrostatic, abominable environment (such as 
pollution, dust, corrosion, freezing), destruction of 
equipment, destruction of media, theft of equipment, theft 
of media, loss of equipment, loss of media, tampering with 
equipment, tampering with media, etc. For example, a computer virus or network worm 
intrudes into a computer system, and then installs a Trojan 
horse in the system. Exploitation of backdoor makes use of the backdoors or 
harmful programs left in software and hardware system 
design processes. Interception, spying, eavesdropping, disclosure,
masquerade, social engineering, network phishing, theft of 
data, loss of data, tampering with data, data error, data 
flow analysis, position detection, etc. Interception captures data before it is able to reach the 
intended recipients. Theft of data is to steal data. Tampering with data is to touch or make changes to data 
without authorization. Data error is to make mistakes when inputting or 
processing data. C.3.1.1.2 Information System Importance 
The importance of the information systems affected by information security incidents is determined by 
considering the importance of the organization business operations supported by the information systems. This approach classifies information 
system importance into three broad levels: especially important information system, important information 
system and ordinary information system. 5 Physical damage 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Fire 
        Water 
        Electrostatic 
 
Abominable environment (such as pollution, dust, corrosion, freezing) 
 
Destruction of equipment 
        Destruction of media 
        Theft of equipment 
 
Theft of media 
        Loss of equipment 
        Loss of media 
 
Tampering with equipment 
        Tampering with media 
        Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8. 9.1 Information/Data 
 
9.2 Hardware 
 
9.3 Software 
 
9.4 Communications 
 
9.5 Documentation 
 
9.6 Processes 
 
9.7 Other 
 
10. natural elements, equipment failure, human error 
 
14. In those countries where 
specific legislation exists that covers data confidentiality and integrity, it is often restricted to the control of 
personal data. BS ISO/IEC 27035:2011
ISO/IEC 27035:2011(E) 
76 
© ISO/IEC 2011 – All rights reserved
 
Bibliography 
[1] 
ISO/IEC 18043, Information technology — Security techniques — Selection, deployment and 
operations of intrusion detection systems 
[2] 
ISO/IEC 20000 (all parts), Information technology — Service management 
[3] 
ISO/PAS 22399, Societal security — Guidelines for incident preparedness and operational continuity 
management 
[4] 
ISO/IEC 27001, Information technology — Security techniques — Information security management 
systems — Requirements 
[5] 
ISO/IEC 27002,  Information technology — Security techniques — Code of practice for information 
security management 
[6] 
ISO/IEC 27003, Information technology — Security techniques — Information security management 
system implementation guidance 
[7] 
ISO/IEC 27004, Information technology — Security techniques — Information security management — 
Measurement 
[8] 
ISO/IEC 27005, Information technology — Security techniques — Information security risk 
management 
[9] 
ISO/IEC 27031, Information technology — Security techniques — Guidelines for information and 
communication technology readiness for business continuity 
[10] 
ISO/IEC 27033-1,  Information technology — Security techniques — Network security — Part 1: 
Overview and concepts 
[11] 
ISO/IEC 27033-2, Information technology — Security techniques — Network security — Part 2: 
Guidelines for the design and implementation of network security7 
[12] 
ISO/IEC 27033-3, Information technology — Security techniques — Network security — Part 3: 
Reference networking scenarios — Threats, design techniques and control issues 
[13] 
Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) Site Security 
Handbook, http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2196. Tel: +44 (0)20 8996 7070
Email: copyright@bsigroup.com