 Cyber Threat Intelligence Enrichment – Cyber threat intelligence covers knowledge of cyber 
threats and threat actor groups that impact cybersecurity. Is it important that all relevant instances of a technique 
being seen get tagged with an ATT&CK mapping even if it may not have been performed due to 
a real incident? Impact Type* 
Tag 
Denotes if the (sub-)technique can be used for 
integrity or availability attacks. There should be 
enough information and references to point toward 
useful defensive methodologies. There could be 
many ways of detecting a (sub-)technique but 
ATT&CK and MITRE do not endorse any particular 
vendor solution. Mitigation 
fields are populated on a (sub-)technique page when 
a mitigation object is associated to a 
(sub-)technique.. The relationship describes the 
details of how a specific mitigation can be applied to 
the (sub-)technique. Mitigation recommendations 
remain vendor agnostic, recommending the general 
method or capability class rather than a specific tool. Mitigation may not always be possible for a given 
(sub-)technique and is documented as such if no 
relationships to a given (sub-)technique are present. 3.4.3 Sub-Technique Details 
The addition of sub-techniques to ATT&CK in 2020 marked a significant shift to how behavior 
is described within the knowledge base. The change was driven by the need to fix some of the 
technique abstraction level issues that occurred as ATT&CK grew over the years. If the information is ambiguous such 
that a sub-technique cannot be identified, then the information will be mapped to the technique. Groups are defined as 
named intrusion sets, threat groups, actor groups, or campaigns that typically represent targeted, 
persistent threat activity. The information within ATT&CK has evolved over time, as have the considerations used for 
what information gets included and how it’s structured. Distribution unlimited 19-01075-28. 
security from a defender’s perspective with a top-down view, such as the CIA2 model, focus on 
vulnerability scoring, such as CVSS [6], or primarily account for risk calculations, such as 
DREAD [7]. 4.1.2.1 
Sources of Information 
New information relevant to ATT&CK techniques can come from many different sources. These 
sources are used to help meet the empirical use criteria: 
• Threat intelligence reports 
• Conference presentations 
• Webinars 
• Social media 
• Blogs 
• Open source code repositories 
• Malware samples 
 
 
2 Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability 
 
22 
©2020 The MITRE Corporation. The information may be used in different ways 
depending on where the information comes from and the vantage the contributing organization 
or individual has. Threat intelligence analysts typically track incidents, threat groups, and how their TTPs evolve 
over time. Defenders in this context refer to threat hunters, malware analysts, and incident 
responders. The 
mid-level model is also a useful construct to tie in threat intelligence and incident data to show 
who is doing what as well as the prevalence of use for particular techniques. 4.2.1 Impact 
The types of tactics in ATT&CK have historically aligned to covering adversaries primarily 
focused on breaching the confidentiality of information. Rather than include all possible types of behaviors not covered elsewhere in ATT&CK, 
techniques in the Impact tactic specifically involve only attacks impacting the integrity or 
availability of information or systems. Along with the other tactics in ATT&CK, this increases 
the scope of ATT&CK to cover the traditional Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability, or 
CIA triad. Attacks on availability reduce or remove the ability to use a system or the information 
on it by damaging it or otherwise reducing its utility. Attacks on integrity manipulate the accuracy or 
completeness of information. Distribution unlimited 19-01075-28. 
stored in a data base, activity which falls under Data Manipulation: Stored Data Manipulation, 
damages the integrity of the balance information. Each technique and sub-technique in the 
Impact tactic includes a mandatory “Impact Type” tag with a value of “Availability” or 
“Integrity” indicating which one the (sub-)technique impacts. ATT&CK remains strongly tied to threat intelligence sources on 
persistent threat groups. There are also fewer persistent threat incidents reported against Linux and 
Mac systems than there are against Windows, causing available threat data to be substantially 
less available. Do other sources corroborate information provided? Analysts should also use caution and not assume 
a technique was used if it is not explicitly stated or could not have happened in any other way 
during the reported incident. This is still a very useful source of information. Some security features 
may mitigate aspects of this technique, such as application whitelisting that includes 
analysis of loaded modules, or code integrity that prevents processes from a lower 
integrity level from interfacing with processes running in at a higher integrity level. Adoption of ATT&CK is widespread across multiple disciplines, including intrusion detection, 
threat hunting, security engineering, threat intelligence, red teaming, and risk management. [Accessed 16 March 2020].