 | 3 | 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Threat Intelligence | Katie Nickels 
So how do we make this information actionable, which is the whole point of threat  
intelligence? If you have a report about an incident your 
organization has worked, this can be a great internal source to map to ATT&CK, or you 
could use an external report like a blog post. | 5 | 
 
  
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Threat Intelligence | Katie Nickels 
6. For those CTI teams who have a couple of analysts, mapping information to ATT&CK  
yourself can be a good way to ensure you’re getting the most relevant information to  
meet your organization’s requirements. From there, you can pass the ATT&CK-mapped  
adversary information to your defenders to inform their defenses, as we discussed above. LEVEL 3 
If your CTI team is advanced, you can start to map more information to ATT&CK, and  
then use that information to prioritize how you defend. Taking the above process, you can  
map both internal and external information to ATT&CK, including incident response data,  
reports from OSINT or threat intel subscriptions, real-time alerts, and your organization’s  
historic information. (All this is based solely on publicly available information that we’ve  
mapped, which is only a subset of what those groups have done.) Check out the Boss of the SOC (BOTS) dataset from Splunk or the BRAWL dataset  
from MITRE. To start,  
look at the technique description from ATT&CK and the threat intel reports linked in the  
examples. For example, you can find their  
list of attacks for Regsvr32, including Squiblydoo. Of course, if you’re already doing red  
teaming, feel free to run the attacks you know yourself (on systems where you have  
permission!) and try to develop analytics for those! Bonus Level 0 Content: Really want to create your own analytics and run your own attacks  
but don’t have your own network? Stand up a VM and monitor it as above, then run the  
attacks on that. ANALYTIC DEVELOPMENT WORKFLOW 
| 15 | 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Detection and Analytics | John Wunder 
LEVEL 3 
Feel confident that you’re cranking out quality analytics to detect attacks from Atomic  
Red Team? Each of these tests contains information about what the 
technique is, the platforms supported, and how to execute the test. It allows the operator to pick one technique or chain many together when  
building the test, which allows you to start to automate sequences of behaviors for your  
testing rather than manually executing single Atomic Tests. Consider: 
Square How did the threat group use this technique? To make this process more accessible—and following along with the other chapters—we’ve 
broken this section down into three levels based on sophistication and resource availability: 
Square Level 1 for those just starting out who may not have many resources 
Square Level 2 for those who are mid-level teams starting to mature 
Square Level 3 for those with more advanced cybersecurity teams and resources 
Getting started with “assessments” might sound frightening at first—who enjoys being 
assessed?—but ATT&CK assessments are a part of a larger process to provide useful data to 
security engineers and architects justifying threat-based security improvements: 
1. A good way to identify how you’re mitigating techniques is to go through each of 
your SOC’s policies, preventative tools, and security controls, then map them to the 
ATT&CK technique(s) they may impact, and then add those techniques to your heatmap 
of coverage. Some examples of techniques with 
mitigations include: 
Square Brute Force can be mitigated with account lockout policies. Katie Nickels is the ATT&CK threat intelligence lead at MITRE, where she 
focuses on sharing how ATT&CK is useful for moving toward a threat-
informed defense. She is also a SANS instructor for FOR578: Cyber Threat 
Intelligence. Katie has worked in network defense, incident response, and 
cyber threat intelligence for nearly a decade. | 41 | 
|  Solving Problems for a Safer World