 Impact consists of techniques that adversaries use to disrupt availability or compromise integrity 
by manipulating business and operational processes. These techniques might be used by 
adversaries to follow through on their end goal or to provide cover for a confidentiality breach. Authorization has to be granted to specific users in order to perform tasks that can be 
considered of higher risk. Information repositories are tools that allow for storage of information, typically to facilitate 
collaboration or information sharing between users, and can store a wide variety of data that 
may aid adversaries in further objectives, such as Credential Access, Lateral Movement, or 
Defense Evasion, or direct access to the target information. Emails may also contain details of ongoing incident response operations, which 
may allow adversaries to adjust their techniques in order to maintain persistence or evade 
defenses. There are examples of 
antivirus software being targeted by persistent threat groups to avoid detection. This may compromise the integrity of security solutions by 
causing notable events to go unreported. This activity may also impede forensic analysis and 
incident response, due to lack of sufficient data to determine what occurred. (Citation: WithSecure Lazarus-NoPineapple Threat Intel 
Report 2023)(Citation: Cadet Blizzard emerges as novel threat actor) In cloud environments, 
adversaries may leverage utilities such as the Azure VM Agent’s `CollectGuestLogs.exe` to 
collect security logs from cloud hosted infrastructure. In addition to gaining a better understanding of the environment, adversaries may also monitor 
logs in real time to track incident response procedures. They achieve this by restricting traffic types to enforce organizational policy 
in an attempt to reduce the risk inherent in such connections. Phishing for information is an attempt to trick targets into divulging 
information, frequently credentials or other actionable information. This could be done to blend traffic patterns with normal activity or 
availability. Stopping critical services or processes can inhibit or stop 
response to an incident or aid in the adversary's overall objectives to cause damage to the 
environment. Because the alternate 
authentication must be maintained by the system—either in memory or on disk—it may be at 
risk of being stolen through [Credential Access](https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0006) 
techniques. (Citation: Cisco Synful 
Knock Evolution) 
 
Encryption can be used to protect transmitted network traffic to maintain its confidentiality 
(protect against unauthorized disclosure) and integrity (protect against unauthorized changes). This poses a greater risk of 
unauthorized disclosure and may help facilitate data manipulation, Credential Access, or 
Collection efforts. (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire)(Citation: Krebs-Anna)(Citation: Krebs-
Bazaar)(Citation: Krebs-Booter) 
  Parent Technique: T1583 
  Associated Tactics: TA0042 
 
T1584.005: Botnet 
  Description: Adversaries may compromise numerous third-party systems to form a botnet that 
can be used during targeting. A botnet is a network of compromised systems that can be 
instructed to perform coordinated tasks. (Citation: Norton Botnet) Instead of purchasing/renting a 
botnet from a booter/stresser service, adversaries may build their own botnet by compromising 
numerous third-party systems. (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire) Adversaries may also conduct 
a takeover of an existing botnet, such as redirecting bots to adversary-controlled C2 
servers. CDNs may also allow organizations to customize content 
delivery based on the requestor’s geographical region. CMSTP.exe can also be abused to [Bypass User Account 
Control](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1548/002) and execute arbitrary commands from a 
malicious INF through an auto-elevated COM interface. When 
calling this API, the user will be prompted to enter their credentials but no checks on the origin 
or integrity of the program are made. (Citation: Kaspersky Gauss 
Whitepaper)(Citation: Ebowla: Genetic Malware) These difficulties can slow down the incident 
response process and help adversaries hide their tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs). GPP are tools that allow administrators to create domain policies with 
embedded credentials. These policies allow administrators to set local accounts. When a user 
attempts to browse a website that presents a certificate that is not trusted an error message will 
be displayed to warn the user of the security risk. (Citation: Microsoft TxF) To ensure data integrity, TxF enables only one transacted 
handle to write to a file at a given time. This value causes Windows, at startup, to check 
the file-system integrity of the hard disks if the system has been shut down abnormally. Threat actors can use 
online resources and lookup tools to harvest information from these services. Spearphishing for information is an 
attempt to trick targets into divulging information, frequently credentials or other actionable 
information. Doing so allows a 
plausible reason for asking about services, policies, and information about their environment. Doing so allows a plausible 
reason for asking about services, policies, and software that's running in an environment. Security reporting messages are important for 
monitoring the normal operation of a system and identifying important events that can signal a 
security incident. When System Integrity Protection 
(SIP) is disabled, TCC protections are also disabled. which may further cause a DoS condition 
and deny availability to critical information, applications and/or systems. (Citation: Trend Micro War of Crypto Miners) 
  Associated Tactics: TA0040 
 
T1556.009: Conditional Access Policies 
  Description: Adversaries may disable or modify conditional access policies to enable persistent 
access to compromised accounts. Threat actors 
can use online resources and lookup tools to harvest information about certificates. This DoS attack may also reduce the availability and 
functionality of the targeted system(s) and network. Password guessing may or may not take into account the target's policies on 
password complexity or use policies that may lock accounts out after a number of failed 
attempts. Adversaries often target the availability of DNS and web 
services, however others have been targeted as well. Because the cryptographic renegotiation has a meaningful cost in 
computation cycles, this can cause an impact to the availability of the service when done in 
volume. Spearphishing for information is an 
attempt to trick targets into divulging information, frequently credentials or other actionable 
information. Spearphishing for information is an 
attempt to trick targets into divulging information, frequently credentials or other actionable 
information. Spearphishing for information is an attempt to trick targets into 
divulging information, frequently credentials or other actionable information. This decision may be employed by malware developers and operators to 
reduce their risk of attracting the attention of specific law enforcement agencies or 
prosecution/scrutiny from other entities. Associated Tactics: TA0004, TA0005 
 
T1597.001: Threat Intel Vendors 
  Description: Adversaries may search private data from threat intelligence vendors for 
information that can be used during targeting. Threat intelligence vendors may offer paid feeds 
or portals that offer more data than what is publicly reported. Associated Tactics: TA0002