 The occurrence of an information security event does not necessarily mean that an attempt has been 
successful or that there are any implications on confidentiality, integrity and/or availability, i.e. If there are no clear procedures, there is a risk that investigation 
activities could be conducted in a reactive mode, by responding to incidents as they occur and 
overlooking what activities are needed. It should be recognized, however, that there is a chance that the actions 
necessary to recover from an information security incident might jeopardize the integrity of any such 
collected evidence. g) 
Improving updates to information security risk assessment and management results 
The use of a structured approach to information security incident management will facilitate the 
- better collection of data for assisting in the identification and determination of the characteristics of the 
various threat types and associated vulnerabilities, and 
- provision of data on frequencies of occurrence of the identified threat types. The data collected to identify the occurrence frequency of the 
various threat types will greatly aid the quality of the threat assessment. It will also be possible to 
demonstrate the benefits associated with the rapid availability of solution information. This applies to policies and other documents applicable both for 
organization-wide and for individual systems, services and networks. b) 
Activity to update information security and risk management policies at a corporate level and specific 
system, service and network levels. Particular attention 
should be given to the creation of tests that focus on the evolving vulnerability, threat and risk scenarios 
(see Clause 5.8). b) 
An overview of information security event detection, reporting and collection of relevant information, and 
how this information should be used to determine information security incidents. c) 
To ensure consistency across the various policies. For guidance on information security risk assessment and management, see ISO/IEC 27005:2008. 5.3.2 Content 
Each organization should update and maintain its corporate information security and risk management 
policies, and specific system, service or network information security policies. These policies need to refer to a 
corporate information security incident management policy and associated scheme explicitly. ii) 
Collecting the information on information security events. The ISIRT should work to educate users, explain how the ISIRT works, how it protects 
confidentiality of information collected and how it manages users' event, incident and vulnerability reports. An organization 
should ensure that the necessary processes are established to anonymize sensitive information and require 
personnel with access to sensitive information to sign confidentiality agreements.. In some cases, it may be desirable for the organization to include awareness detail specifically about 
information security incident management in other training programs (for example, personnel orientation 
programs or general corporate security awareness programs). This awareness approach may provide 
valuable context relevant to particular groups of people, and improves training program effectiveness and 
efficiency. Before the information security incident management scheme becomes operational, the organization should 
ensure that all relevant personnel are familiar with the procedures involved in the detection and reporting of 
information security events, and selected personnel are very knowledgeable about the subsequent activities. This should be followed up by regular awareness briefings and training courses. The 
organization should ensure that the appropriate personnel deal with reported information security 
vulnerabilities in a similar manner to how non-information security faults are handled, possibly with 
assessment and resolution using technical personnel (who may or may not be members of the ISIRT). When considering the potential or actual adverse effects of an information security incident on the business of 
an organization, the following are some examples: 
a) 
unauthorized disclosure of information, 
b) 
unauthorized modification of information, 
c) 
repudiation of information, 
d) 
unavailability of information and/or service, 
e) 
destruction of information and/or service, and 
f) 
reduced performance of service. controls to be adopted to prevent re-occurrence or similar 
occurrences). An information security incident should be correlated to any other event/incident reported to the ISIRT. This 
important activity is to verify if the incident is connected to any other event/incident or it is simply the effect of 
another incident, i.e. It may be necessary 
to check the integrity of the logs, as a deliberate attacker may have manipulated these logs to cover his/her 
tracks. further controls to be adopted to prevent re-occurrence or 
similar 
occurrences). Some responses are directed at preventing information security incident re-occurrence or similar occurrence. Other measures to decrease the possibility of re-occurrence or similar occurrence of an IT 
information security incident may include changing system passwords and disabling unused services. m) Activity to perform file integrity checks to detect Trojan horse files and files not originally on the system. If any information pertaining to information 
security incidents is to be released to the press it should be done in accordance with organization's 
information dissemination policy. b) 
New or changed threat and vulnerability information and thus changes to the organization's existing 
information security risk assessment and management review results. 9.5 Identifying and making improvements to information security risk assessment and 
management review results 
Depending on the severity and impact of an information security incident (or the severity and potential impact 
related to a reported information security vulnerability), an assessment of information security risk assessment 
and management review results may be necessary to take into account new threats and vulnerabilities. B.1.4 
Inappropriate usage 
This kind of incident occurs when a user violates an organization's information system security policies. A malicious 
program is inserted into 
information systems to 
damage the confidentiality, 
integrity or availability of 
data, applications or 
operating systems, and/or 
affect the normal operation of 
information systems. Abuse of rights, forging of rights, denial of actions, mis-
operations, breach of personnel availability, etc. Breach of personnel availability is caused by the lack or 
absence of human resources. C.3.1.1.2 Information System Importance 
The importance of the information systems affected by information security incidents is determined by 
considering the importance of the organization business operations supported by the information systems. This approach classifies information 
system importance into three broad levels: especially important information system, important information 
system and ordinary information system.  telephone and e-mail 
Incident description 
 
What occurred 
 
How occurred 
 
Why Occurred 
 
Initial views on components/assets affected 
 
Adverse business impacts 
 
Any vulnerability identified 
Incident details 
 
Date and time the incident occurred 
 
Date and time the incident was discovered 
 
Date and time the incident was reported 
Incident category 
Components/assets affected 
Adverse business impact/effect of incident 
Total recovery cost from incident 
Incident resolution 
Person(s)/perpetrator( Incident Number4 
 
3. INFORMATION SECURITY INCIDENT DETAILS 
7.1 Date and Time the Incident Occurred 
 
7.2 Date and Time the Incident was Discovered 
 
7.3 Date and Time the Incident was Reported 
 
7.4 Identity/Contact Details of Reporting Person 
 
7.5 Is the Incident Over? 8.1 Actual 
(incident has occurred) 
 
8.2 Suspected 
(incident thought to have occurred but not 
confirmed) 
 
(One of) 
8.3 Natural disaster 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Earthquake 
 
Volcano 
 
Flood 
 
Violent wind 
 
Lightning 
 
Tsunami 
 
Collapse 
 
Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8.4 Social unrest 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Bedin 
    Terrorist assault 
    War 
    Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8. 10 Technical attack 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Network scanning 
        Exploitation of vulnerability 
        Exploitation of backdoor 
 
Login attempts, Interference 
        Denial of Service (DoS) 
        Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8.11 Breach of rule 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Unauthorized use of resources 
        Breach of copyright 
        Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8. 12 Compromise of functions 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Abuse of rights 
        Forging of rights, Denial of actions 
        Mis-operations 
 
Breach of personnel availability 
        Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8.13 Compromise of information 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Interception 
        Spying, Eavesdropping 
        Disclosure 
 
Masquerade, VALUE 
GUIDELINE(S) 
COST 
10.1 Breach of Confidentiality 
(i.e. unauthorized disclosure) 
 
 
 
 
10.2 Breach of Integrity 
(i.e. unauthorized modification) 
 
 
 
 
10.3 Breach of Availability 
(i.e. INCIDENT RESOLUTION 
12.1 Incident Investigation Commenced Date 
 
12.2 Incident Investigator(s) Names(s) 
 
12.3 Incident End Date 
 
12.4 Impact End Date 
 
12.5 Incident Investigation Completion Date 
 
12.6 Reference and Location of Investigation Report 
 
13. In those countries where 
specific legislation exists that covers data confidentiality and integrity, it is often restricted to the control of 
personal data.  
Legal Issues related to Policies and Procedures are dealt with. Tel: +44 (0)20 8996 7070
Email: copyright@bsigroup.com