 Is it important that all relevant instances of a technique 
being seen get tagged with an ATT&CK mapping even if it may not have been performed due to 
a real incident? Impact Type* 
Tag 
Denotes if the (sub-)technique can be used for 
integrity or availability attacks. There should be 
enough information and references to point toward 
useful defensive methodologies. There could be 
many ways of detecting a (sub-)technique but 
ATT&CK and MITRE do not endorse any particular 
vendor solution. Mitigation 
fields are populated on a (sub-)technique page when 
a mitigation object is associated to a 
(sub-)technique.. The relationship describes the 
details of how a specific mitigation can be applied to 
the (sub-)technique. Mitigation recommendations 
remain vendor agnostic, recommending the general 
method or capability class rather than a specific tool. Mitigation may not always be possible for a given 
(sub-)technique and is documented as such if no 
relationships to a given (sub-)technique are present. For detection, 
oftentimes defensive analysts are presented with alerts with little to no context about the event 
that caused the alert. These 
sources are used to help meet the empirical use criteria: 
• Threat intelligence reports 
• Conference presentations 
• Webinars 
• Social media 
• Blogs 
• Open source code repositories 
• Malware samples 
 
 
2 Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability 
 
22 
©2020 The MITRE Corporation. Defenders in this context refer to threat hunters, malware analysts, and incident 
responders. The 
mid-level model is also a useful construct to tie in threat intelligence and incident data to show 
who is doing what as well as the prevalence of use for particular techniques. 4.2.1 Impact 
The types of tactics in ATT&CK have historically aligned to covering adversaries primarily 
focused on breaching the confidentiality of information. Rather than include all possible types of behaviors not covered elsewhere in ATT&CK, 
techniques in the Impact tactic specifically involve only attacks impacting the integrity or 
availability of information or systems. Along with the other tactics in ATT&CK, this increases 
the scope of ATT&CK to cover the traditional Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability, or 
CIA triad. Attacks on availability reduce or remove the ability to use a system or the information 
on it by damaging it or otherwise reducing its utility. Attacks on integrity manipulate the accuracy or 
completeness of information. Distribution unlimited 19-01075-28. 
stored in a data base, activity which falls under Data Manipulation: Stored Data Manipulation, 
damages the integrity of the balance information. Each technique and sub-technique in the 
Impact tactic includes a mandatory “Impact Type” tag with a value of “Availability” or 
“Integrity” indicating which one the (sub-)technique impacts. Analysts should also use caution and not assume 
a technique was used if it is not explicitly stated or could not have happened in any other way 
during the reported incident. Some security features 
may mitigate aspects of this technique, such as application whitelisting that includes 
analysis of loaded modules, or code integrity that prevents processes from a lower 
integrity level from interfacing with processes running in at a higher integrity level. [Accessed 16 March 2020].