 If you have a report about an incident your 
organization has worked, this can be a great internal source to map to ATT&CK, or you 
could use an external report like a blog post. Taking the above process, you can  
map both internal and external information to ATT&CK, including incident response data,  
reports from OSINT or threat intel subscriptions, real-time alerts, and your organization’s  
historic information. Rather than identifying things that are known to be bad and blocking them, ATT&CK-
based analytics involve collecting log and event data about the things happening on your systems 
and using that to identify the suspicious behaviors described in ATT&CK.  Windows 
Event Logs, and many EDR platforms 
Square File and registry monitoring, also often collected by Sysmon, Windows Event Logs, 
and many EDR platforms 
Square Authentication logs, such as those collected from the domain controller via Windows 
Event Logs 
Square Packet capture, especially east/west capture such as that collected between hosts 
and enclaves in your network by sensors such as Zeek 
Once you know what data you have, you’ll need to collect that data into some kind 
of search platform (Security Information and Event Management or SIEM) so you 
can run analytics against it. Check out the Boss of the SOC (BOTS) dataset from Splunk or the BRAWL dataset  
from MITRE. For example, you can find their  
list of attacks for Regsvr32, including Squiblydoo. Of course, if you’re already doing red  
teaming, feel free to run the attacks you know yourself (on systems where you have  
permission!) and try to develop analytics for those! Bonus Level 0 Content: Really want to create your own analytics and run your own attacks  
but don’t have your own network? Stand up a VM and monitor it as above, then run the  
attacks on that. At this stage, you’re looking for things that make this malicious event look distinctive. Test that confidence and improve your defenses by doing some purple  
teaming! It allows the operator to pick one technique or chain many together when  
building the test, which allows you to start to automate sequences of behaviors for your  
testing rather than manually executing single Atomic Tests. To make this process more accessible—and following along with the other chapters—we’ve 
broken this section down into three levels based on sophistication and resource availability: 
Square Level 1 for those just starting out who may not have many resources 
Square Level 2 for those who are mid-level teams starting to mature 
Square Level 3 for those with more advanced cybersecurity teams and resources 
Getting started with “assessments” might sound frightening at first—who enjoys being 
assessed?—but ATT&CK assessments are a part of a larger process to provide useful data to 
security engineers and architects justifying threat-based security improvements: 
1. Tip: A frequently cited data source is Windows Event Logs, which provide visibility into 
many ATT&CK techniques. A good resource for getting started with event logs is Malware 
Archaeology’s Windows ATT&CK Logging Cheat Sheet, which maps Windows events to the 
techniques you could detect with them. As an example, you might have an analytic that looks at a specific  
Windows event; to determine this analytic’s coverage, you can look up the event ID in  
the Windows ATT&CK Logging Cheat Sheet or a similar repository. Tip: Always weigh the potential loss of visibility when investigating removing detections  
in favor of mitigations. Katie has worked in network defense, incident response, and 
cyber threat intelligence for nearly a decade. | 41 | 
|  Solving Problems for a Safer World