 Impact consists of techniques that adversaries use to disrupt availability or compromise integrity 
by manipulating business and operational processes. These techniques might be used by 
adversaries to follow through on their end goal or to provide cover for a confidentiality breach. Similarly, adversaries may 
modify existing services, daemons, or agents to achieve the same effect. Emails may also contain details of ongoing incident response operations, which 
may allow adversaries to adjust their techniques in order to maintain persistence or evade 
defenses. After gaining access to a victim system, 
adversaries may create/modify event triggers to point to malicious content that will be executed 
whenever the event trigger is invoked. (Citation: FBI-BEC) This creates the potential for multiple victims 
(i.e., compromised accounts as well as the ultimate monetary loss) in incidents involving 
financial theft. This may compromise the integrity of security solutions by 
causing notable events to go unreported. This activity may also impede forensic analysis and 
incident response, due to lack of sufficient data to determine what occurred. Previously, there were two headers to achieve this same 
effect: LC_THREAD and LC_UNIXTHREAD  (Citation: Prolific OSX Malware History). In addition to gaining a better understanding of the environment, adversaries may also monitor 
logs in real time to track incident response procedures. This can either be done live in memory during system runtime for 
immediate effect, or in storage to implement the change on the next boot of the network device. (Citation: Trend Micro APT Attack Tools) Adversaries use these 
types of proxies to manage command and control communications, reduce the number of 
simultaneous outbound network connections, provide resiliency in the face of connection loss, 
or to ride over existing trusted communications paths between victims to avoid suspicion. This could be done to blend traffic patterns with normal activity or 
availability. Stopping critical services or processes can inhibit or stop 
response to an incident or aid in the adversary's overall objectives to cause damage to the 
environment. The access may be 
used to laterally move to other systems, gather information, or cause a specific effect, such as 
wiping the hard drives on all endpoints. (Citation: Cisco Synful 
Knock Evolution) 
 
Encryption can be used to protect transmitted network traffic to maintain its confidentiality 
(protect against unauthorized disclosure) and integrity (protect against unauthorized changes). With a botnet at their disposal, 
adversaries may perform follow-on activity such as large-scale 
[Phishing](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1566) or Distributed Denial of Service 
(DDoS). (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire)(Citation: Krebs-Anna)(Citation: Krebs-
Bazaar)(Citation: Krebs-Booter) 
  Parent Technique: T1583 
  Associated Tactics: TA0042 
 
T1584.005: Botnet 
  Description: Adversaries may compromise numerous third-party systems to form a botnet that 
can be used during targeting. A botnet is a network of compromised systems that can be 
instructed to perform coordinated tasks. (Citation: Norton Botnet) Instead of purchasing/renting a 
botnet from a booter/stresser service, adversaries may build their own botnet by compromising 
numerous third-party systems. (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire) Adversaries may also conduct 
a takeover of an existing botnet, such as redirecting bots to adversary-controlled C2 
servers. CDNs allow an organization to host content from a distributed, 
load balanced array of servers. CDNs may also allow organizations to customize content 
delivery based on the requestor’s geographical region. CMSTP.exe can also be abused to [Bypass User Account 
Control](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1548/002) and execute arbitrary commands from a 
malicious INF through an auto-elevated COM interface. When 
calling this API, the user will be prompted to enter their credentials but no checks on the origin 
or integrity of the program are made. (Citation: Kaspersky Gauss 
Whitepaper)(Citation: Ebowla: Genetic Malware) These difficulties can slow down the incident 
response process and help adversaries hide their tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs). This could include maliciously redirecting(Citation: 
Microsoft Lamin Sept 2017) or even disabling host-based sensors, such as Event Tracing for 
Windows (ETW)(Citation: Microsoft About Event Tracing 2018), by tampering settings that 
control the collection and flow of event telemetry. This action does not 
require a system reboot and takes effect immediately. (Citation: Trend 
Micro APT Attack Tools) Adversaries use internal proxies to manage command and control 
communications inside a compromised environment, to reduce the number of simultaneous 
outbound network connections, to provide resiliency in the face of connection loss, or to ride 
over existing trusted communications paths between infected systems to avoid suspicion. (Citation: Microsoft TxF) To ensure data integrity, TxF enables only one transacted 
handle to write to a file at a given time. This value causes Windows, at startup, to check 
the file-system integrity of the hard disks if the system has been shut down abnormally. Security reporting messages are important for 
monitoring the normal operation of a system and identifying important events that can signal a 
security incident. When System Integrity Protection 
(SIP) is disabled, TCC protections are also disabled. which may further cause a DoS condition 
and deny availability to critical information, applications and/or systems. Associated Tactics: TA0005 
 
T1070.001: Clear Windows Event Logs 
  Description: Adversaries may clear Windows Event Logs to hide the activity of an intrusion. Windows Event Logs are a record of a computer's alerts and notifications. This DoS attack may also reduce the availability and 
functionality of the targeted system(s) and network. (Citation: 
Trend Micro APT Attack Tools) Adversaries use these types of proxies to manage command 
and control communications, to provide resiliency in the face of connection loss, or to ride over 
existing trusted communications paths to avoid suspicion. Any potential changes cannot take effect until every registered filter 
acknowledges validation. Adversaries often target the availability of DNS and web 
services, however others have been targeted as well. Because the cryptographic renegotiation has a meaningful cost in 
computation cycles, this can cause an impact to the availability of the service when done in 
volume. WMI can be used to install event filters, providers, consumers, and bindings that 
execute code when a defined event occurs. (Citation: Mandiant M-Trends 2015) 
 
Adversaries may use the capabilities of WMI to subscribe to an event and execute arbitrary 
code when that event occurs, providing persistence on a system. Associated Tactics: TA0002