 The occurrence of an information security event does not necessarily mean that an attempt has been 
successful or that there are any implications on confidentiality, integrity and/or availability, i.e. These impacts can 
include immediate financial loss and longer-term loss arising from damaged reputation and credibility (for 
guidance on business impact analysis, see ISO/IEC 27005:2008). It should be recognized, however, that there is a chance that the actions 
necessary to recover from an information security incident might jeopardize the integrity of any such 
collected evidence. The data collected to identify the occurrence frequency of the 
various threat types will greatly aid the quality of the threat assessment. It will also be possible to 
demonstrate the benefits associated with the rapid availability of solution information. 2) The information security event/incident/vulnerability forms: 
i) 
completed by the person reporting an information security event (i.e. The information security incident management 
scheme comes into effect whenever an information security event is detected, or an information security 
vulnerability is reported. The ISIRT should work to educate users, explain how the ISIRT works, how it protects 
confidentiality of information collected and how it manages users' event, incident and vulnerability reports. An organization 
should ensure that the necessary processes are established to anonymize sensitive information and require 
personnel with access to sensitive information to sign confidentiality agreements.. This awareness approach may provide 
valuable context relevant to particular groups of people, and improves training program effectiveness and 
efficiency. Before the information security incident management scheme becomes operational, the organization should 
ensure that all relevant personnel are familiar with the procedures involved in the detection and reporting of 
information security events, and selected personnel are very knowledgeable about the subsequent activities. 6 
Detection and reporting phase 
6.1 Overview of key activities 
The first phase of the operational use of an information security incident management scheme involves the 
detecting of, collecting information associated with, and reporting on occurrences of information security 
events and existence of information security vulnerabilities by human or automatic means. Reduction
of
false alarm
Report of
information
security
incident
Alarm
of
abnormality
or anomaly
 Incident categolization and
severity classification
 
Figure 3 — Information security event and incident flow diagram 
NOTE 
False alarm is an indication of an unwanted event, but is found not to be real or of any consequence. Example guidelines are given in Annex C. Example categories are the 
following: 
a) 
financial loss/disruption to business operations, 
b) 
commercial and economic interests, 
c) 
personal information, 
d) 
legal and regulatory obligations, 
e) 
management and business operations, 
f) 
loss of goodwill, 
g) 
injury or loss of life, and 
h) 
societal disruption. controls to be adopted to prevent re-occurrence or similar 
occurrences). An information security incident should be correlated to any other event/incident reported to the ISIRT. This 
important activity is to verify if the incident is connected to any other event/incident or it is simply the effect of 
another incident, i.e. It may be necessary 
to check the integrity of the logs, as a deliberate attacker may have manipulated these logs to cover his/her 
tracks. further controls to be adopted to prevent re-occurrence or 
similar 
occurrences). Some responses are directed at preventing information security incident re-occurrence or similar occurrence. Other measures to decrease the possibility of re-occurrence or similar occurrence of an IT 
information security incident may include changing system passwords and disabling unused services. m) Activity to perform file integrity checks to detect Trojan horse files and files not originally on the system. A malicious 
program is inserted into 
information systems to 
damage the confidentiality, 
integrity or availability of 
data, applications or 
operating systems, and/or 
affect the normal operation of 
information systems. Abuse of rights, forging of rights, denial of actions, mis-
operations, breach of personnel availability, etc. Breach of personnel availability is caused by the lack or 
absence of human resources. This approach classifies business loss into four broad levels: especially serious business loss, 
serious business loss, considerable business loss, and minor business loss, as described below. An organization could not bear this level of business loss. An organization could bear this level of business 
loss. An organization could completely bear this level of business loss. However, at some of the levels (on the 1 to 10 scale) for some of the types, it is 
considered that there is not sufficient differentiation over the immediate lower consequence entries to 
make an entry – and this is annotated “No entry”. Similarly, at the higher end of some types it is 
considered that there is no greater consequence than the highest entry shown – and thus the higher end 
entries are annotated “No entry”. C.3.2.3 Commercial and economic interests 
Commercial and economic information needs to be protected, and is valued by considering its value to 
competitors or the effect its compromise could have on commercial interests. D.2 Example items in records 
D.2.1 Example items of the record for information security event 
This includes basic information of the information security event, such as when, what, how and why the event 
occurred, as well as the contact information of the reporting person.  telephone and e-mail 
Incident description 
 
What occurred 
 
How occurred 
 
Why Occurred 
 
Initial views on components/assets affected 
 
Adverse business impacts 
 
Any vulnerability identified 
Incident details 
 
Date and time the incident occurred 
 
Date and time the incident was discovered 
 
Date and time the incident was reported 
Incident category 
Components/assets affected 
Adverse business impact/effect of incident 
Total recovery cost from incident 
Incident resolution 
Person(s)/perpetrator( Whether the 
information 
security 
event 
is 
classified 
as 
an 
incident 
or 
not, 
the 
information 
security 
event/incident/vulnerability database should be updated. Date of Event 
 
 
Page 1 of 1 
2. Event Number3 
 
3. INFORMATION SECURITY EVENT DETAILS 
6.1 Date and Time the Event Occurred 
 
6.2 Date and Time the Event was Discovered 
 
6.3 Date and Time the Event was Reported 
 
6.4 Is the Response to this Event Closed? Incident Number4 
 
3. INFORMATION SECURITY INCIDENT DETAILS 
7.1 Date and Time the Incident Occurred 
 
7.2 Date and Time the Incident was Discovered 
 
7.3 Date and Time the Incident was Reported 
 
7.4 Identity/Contact Details of Reporting Person 
 
7.5 Is the Incident Over? ADVERSE BUSINESS IMPACT/EFFECT OF INCIDENT 
For each of the following indicate if relevant in the tick box, then against “value” record the level(s) of adverse business impact, covering 
all parties affected by the incident, on a scale of 1 to 10 using the guidelines for the categories of: Financial Loss/Disruption to Business 
Operations, Commercial and Economic Interests, Personal Information, Legal and Regulatory Obligations, Management and Business 
Operations, and Loss of Goodwill. VALUE 
GUIDELINE(S) 
COST 
10.1 Breach of Confidentiality 
(i.e. unauthorized disclosure) 
 
 
 
 
10.2 Breach of Integrity 
(i.e. unauthorized modification) 
 
 
 
 
10.3 Breach of Availability 
(i.e. INCIDENT RESOLUTION 
12.1 Incident Investigation Commenced Date 
 
12.2 Incident Investigator(s) Names(s) 
 
12.3 Incident End Date 
 
12.4 Impact End Date 
 
12.5 Incident Investigation Completion Date 
 
12.6 Reference and Location of Investigation Report 
 
13. In those countries where 
specific legislation exists that covers data confidentiality and integrity, it is often restricted to the control of 
personal data. Tel: +44 (0)20 8996 7070
Email: copyright@bsigroup.com