 ......................................................25 
3.2.2 
Signs of an Incident ......................................................................................26 
3.2.3 
Sources of Precursors and Indicators ...........................................................27 
3.2.4 
Incident Analysis ..........................................................................................28 
3.2.5 
Incident Documentation ................................................................................30 
3.2.6 
Incident Prioritization ....................................................................................32 
3.2.7 
Incident Notification ........... An incident response capability is therefore necessary for rapidly detecting incidents, 
minimizing loss and destruction, mitigating the weaknesses that were exploited, and restoring IT services.  Loss or Theft of Equipment: The loss or theft of a computing device or media used by the 
organization, such as a laptop or smartphone. Incidents should be prioritized based on the relevant factors, 
such as the functional impact of the incident (e.g., current and likely future negative impact to business 
functions), the information impact of the incident (e.g., effect on the confidentiality, integrity, and 
availability of the organization’s information), and the recoverability from the incident (e.g., the time and 
types of resources that must be spent on recovering from the incident). 2.1 
Events and Incidents 
An event is any observable occurrence in a system or network. Adverse events are events with a negative consequence, such as system crashes, 
packet floods, unauthorized use of system privileges, unauthorized access to sensitive data, and execution 
of malware that destroys data. Incident response helps personnel to minimize 
loss or theft of information and disruption of services caused by incidents. Otherwise, sensitive information 
regarding incidents may be provided to unauthorized parties, potentially leading to additional disruption 
and financial loss. One or more team members, depending on the magnitude of the 
incident and availability of personnel, will then handle the incident. 2.4.2 Team Model Selection 
When selecting appropriate structure and staffing models for an incident response team, organizations 
should consider the following factors: 
 The Need for 24/7 Availability. Real-time availability is the best for incident response because the longer 
an incident lasts, the more potential there is for damage and loss. Larger teams often assign an incident lead as the primary POC for handling a 
specific incident; the incident lead is held accountable for the incident’s handling. This should 
include sending staff to conferences and encouraging or otherwise incentivizing participation in 
conferences, ensuring the availability of technical references that promote deeper technical 
understanding, and occasionally bringing in outside experts (e.g., contractors) with deep technical 
knowledge in needed areas as funding permits. The incident response plan should also indicate how often incident handlers 
should be trained and the requirements for incident handlers. The jump kit should be ready to go at all times. For example, each jump kit typically includes a 
laptop, loaded with appropriate software (e.g., packet sniffers, digital forensics). Other important 
materials include backup devices, blank media, and basic networking equipment and cables. Because the 
purpose of having a jump kit is to facilitate faster responses, the team should avoid borrowing items from 
the jump kit. Note that because this laptop is special purpose, 
it is likely to use software other than the standard enterprise tools and configurations, and whenever 
possible the incident handlers should be allowed to specify basic technical requirements for these special-
purpose investigative laptops. Exercises involving simulated incidents can also be very useful for preparing staff for incident handling; 
see NIST SP 800-84 for more information on exercises23 and Appendix A for sample exercise scenarios. COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
26 
 Loss or Theft of Equipment: The loss or theft of a computing device or media used by the 
organization, such as a laptop, smartphone, or authentication token. File integrity 
checking 
software 
File integrity checking software can detect changes made to important files during incidents. Logs can be used for 
analysis by correlating event information. Depending on the event information, an alert can be 
generated to indicate an incident. Given the occurrence of indicators, however, it is 
reasonable to suspect that an incident might be occurring and to act accordingly. Examples of profiling are running file integrity checking 
software on hosts to derive checksums for critical files and monitoring network bandwidth usage to 
determine what the average and peak usage levels are on various days and times. COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
32 
3.2.6 Incident Prioritization 
Prioritizing the handling of the incident is perhaps the most critical decision point in the incident handling 
process. Incidents may affect the confidentiality, integrity, and 
availability of the organization’s information. In 
some instances it is not possible to recover from an incident (e.g., if the confidentiality of sensitive 
information has been compromised) and it would not make sense to spend limited resources on an 
elongated incident handling cycle, unless that effort was directed at ensuring that a similar incident 
did not occur in the future. An organization can best quantify the effect of its own incidents because of its situational awareness. Functional Impact Categories 
Category 
Definition 
None 
No effect to the organization’s ability to provide all services to all users 
Low 
Minimal effect; the organization can still provide all critical services to all users but has lost 
efficiency  
Medium 
Organization has lost the ability to provide a critical service to a subset of system users 
High 
Organization is no longer able to provide some critical services to any users 
 
Table 3-3 provides examples of possible information impact categories that describe the extent of 
information compromise that occurred during the incident. was accessed or exfiltrated 
Proprietary 
Breach 
Unclassified proprietary information, such as protected critical infrastructure information (PCII), 
was accessed or exfiltrated 
Integrity 
Loss 
Sensitive or proprietary information was changed or deleted 
 
Table 3-4 shows examples of recoverability effort categories that reflect the level of and type of resources 
required to recover from the incident. A detailed log should be kept for all evidence, including the following: 
 Identifying information (e.g., the location, serial number, model number, hostname, media access 
control (MAC) addresses, and IP addresses of a computer) 
 Name, title, and phone number of each individual who collected or handled the evidence during the 
investigation 
 Time and date (including time zone) of each occurrence of evidence handling 
 Locations where the evidence was stored. Intrusion detection and prevention systems, antivirus software, and file integrity checking 
software are valuable for detecting signs of incidents.  Perform event correlation. For example, a small organization that identifies a 
particularly complex instance of malware on its network may not have the in-house resources to fully 
analyze the malware and determine its effect on the system. An example is a nondisclosure agreement (NDA) to 
protect the confidentiality of the organization’s most sensitive information. 4.3.2 Technical Information 
There are many different types of technical indicators signifying the occurrence of an incident within an 
organization. 2 
Incident Handler Data Elements 
 Current Status of the Incident Response 
 Summary of the Incident 
 Incident Handling Actions 
– Log of actions taken by all handlers 
– Contact information for all involved parties 
– List of evidence gathered 
 Incident Handler Comments 
 Cause of the Incident (e.g. , misconfigured application, unpatched host) 
 Cost of the Incident 
 Business Impact of the Incident49 
 
 
 
                                                      
49  
The business impact of the incident could either be a description of the incident’s effect (e.g., accounting department unable 
to perform tasks for two days) or an impact category based on the cost (e.g., a “major” incident has a cost of over $100,000). Event: Any observable occurrence in a network or system. Threat: The potential source of an adverse event. What is an incident? Incident handling is the process of detecting and analyzing incidents and limiting the incident’s 
effect. 1.1) 
 Added a mention of exercises (Section 3.1.1) 
 Revised the attack vectors (formerly incident categories) (Section 3.2.1) 
COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
70 
 Added SIEMs, network flows as common sources of precursors and indicators (Section 3.2.3) 
 Expanded discussion of eradication and recovery (Section 3.3.4) 
 Added a section on coordination and information sharing (Section 4) 
 Added a table of data exchange specifications applicable to incident handling (Appendix E)