 This can potentially have both direct and indirect adverse impacts on an organization's business operations. The occurrence of an information security event does not necessarily mean that an attempt has been 
successful or that there are any implications on confidentiality, integrity and/or availability, i.e. b) 
Reducing adverse business impacts 
A structured approach to information security incident management can assist in reducing the level of 
potential adverse business impacts associated with information security incidents. The data collected to identify the occurrence frequency of the 
various threat types will greatly aid the quality of the threat assessment. In any 
event, the decision should be based on the actual or projected adverse impacts on the organization's 
business operations. 2) The information security event/incident/vulnerability forms: 
i) 
completed by the person reporting an information security event (i.e. In some cases, it may be desirable for the organization to include awareness detail specifically about 
information security incident management in other training programs (for example, personnel orientation 
programs or general corporate security awareness programs). This awareness approach may provide 
valuable context relevant to particular groups of people, and improves training program effectiveness and 
efficiency. Before the information security incident management scheme becomes operational, the organization should 
ensure that all relevant personnel are familiar with the procedures involved in the detection and reporting of 
information security events, and selected personnel are very knowledgeable about the subsequent activities. This should be followed up by regular awareness briefings and training courses. The 
organization should ensure that the appropriate personnel deal with reported information security 
vulnerabilities in a similar manner to how non-information security faults are handled, possibly with 
assessment and resolution using technical personnel (who may or may not be members of the ISIRT). Reduction
of
false alarm
Report of
information
security
incident
Alarm
of
abnormality
or anomaly
 Incident categolization and
severity classification
 
Figure 3 — Information security event and incident flow diagram 
NOTE 
False alarm is an indication of an unwanted event, but is found not to be real or of any consequence. The information security incident reporting form should contain narrative, and 
as far as possible should confirm and describe the following: 
a) 
what the information security incident is, 
b) 
how it was caused and by what or whom, 
BS ISO/IEC 27035:2011
ISO/IEC 27035:2011(E) 
© ISO/IEC 2011 – All rights reserved 
29
 
c) 
what it affects or could affect, 
d) 
the impact or potential impact of the information security incident on the business of the organization, 
e) 
an indication as to whether the information security incident is deemed significant or not (using the 
organization's pre-determined classification scale), and 
f) 
how it has been dealt with so far. controls to be adopted to prevent re-occurrence or similar 
occurrences). An information security incident should be correlated to any other event/incident reported to the ISIRT. This 
important activity is to verify if the incident is connected to any other event/incident or it is simply the effect of 
another incident, i.e. The aim is to confirm the following as soon as possible: 
a) 
What the information security incident is, how it was caused and by what or whom, what it affects or could 
affect, the impact or potential impact of the information security incident on the business of the 
organization, an indication as to whether the information security incident is deemed significant or not 
(using the organization's pre-determined severity scale). The update may cover further information on the following: 
a) 
what the information security incident is, 
b) 
how it was caused and by what or whom, 
c) 
what it affects or could affect, 
d) 
the impact or potential impact of the information security incident on the business of the organization, 
e) 
changes to the indication as to whether the information security incident is deemed significant or not 
(using the organization's pre-determined severity scale), and 
f) 
how it has been dealt with so far. further controls to be adopted to prevent re-occurrence or 
similar 
occurrences). Some responses are directed at preventing information security incident re-occurrence or similar occurrence. Other measures to decrease the possibility of re-occurrence or similar occurrence of an IT 
information security incident may include changing system passwords and disabling unused services. Important social impact would mean adverse effects spanning most areas of one or more cities, 
threatening national security, causing social panic, bringing significant adverse consequences on economic 
development, and/or damaging public interest. Considerable social impact would mean adverse effects spanning partial areas of one or more cities, with 
limited threatening of national security, with some disturbance to social order, bringing some adverse 
consequences on economic development, and/or influencing public interest. Further, repudiation of commitments could have adverse business 
consequences. D.2 Example items in records 
D.2.1 Example items of the record for information security event 
This includes basic information of the information security event, such as when, what, how and why the event 
occurred, as well as the contact information of the reporting person.  telephone and e-mail 
Incident description 
 
What occurred 
 
How occurred 
 
Why Occurred 
 
Initial views on components/assets affected 
 
Adverse business impacts 
 
Any vulnerability identified 
Incident details 
 
Date and time the incident occurred 
 
Date and time the incident was discovered 
 
Date and time the incident was reported 
Incident category 
Components/assets affected 
Adverse business impact/effect of incident 
Total recovery cost from incident 
Incident resolution 
Person(s)/perpetrator( Whether the 
information 
security 
event 
is 
classified 
as 
an 
incident 
or 
not, 
the 
information 
security 
event/incident/vulnerability database should be updated. Date of Event 
 
 
Page 1 of 1 
2. Event Number3 
 
3. INFORMATION SECURITY EVENT DETAILS 
6.1 Date and Time the Event Occurred 
 
6.2 Date and Time the Event was Discovered 
 
6.3 Date and Time the Event was Reported 
 
6.4 Is the Response to this Event Closed? Incident Number4 
 
3. INFORMATION SECURITY INCIDENT DETAILS 
7.1 Date and Time the Incident Occurred 
 
7.2 Date and Time the Incident was Discovered 
 
7.3 Date and Time the Incident was Reported 
 
7.4 Identity/Contact Details of Reporting Person 
 
7.5 Is the Incident Over? INCIDENT RESOLUTION 
12.1 Incident Investigation Commenced Date 
 
12.2 Incident Investigator(s) Names(s) 
 
12.3 Incident End Date 
 
12.4 Impact End Date 
 
12.5 Incident Investigation Completion Date 
 
12.6 Reference and Location of Investigation Report 
 
13. Tel: +44 (0)20 8996 7070
Email: copyright@bsigroup.com