 For an organization with just a couple of analysts  
that wants to start using ATT&CK for threat intelligence, one way you can start is by taking  
a single group you care about and looking at their behaviors as structured in ATT&CK.  Windows 
Event Logs, and many EDR platforms 
Square File and registry monitoring, also often collected by Sysmon, Windows Event Logs, 
and many EDR platforms 
Square Authentication logs, such as those collected from the domain controller via Windows 
Event Logs 
Square Packet capture, especially east/west capture such as that collected between hosts 
and enclaves in your network by sensors such as Zeek 
Once you know what data you have, you’ll need to collect that data into some kind 
of search platform (Security Information and Event Management or SIEM) so you 
can run analytics against it. For example, you can find their  
list of attacks for Regsvr32, including Squiblydoo. Of course, if you’re already doing red  
teaming, feel free to run the attacks you know yourself (on systems where you have  
permission!) and try to develop analytics for those! Bonus Level 0 Content: Really want to create your own analytics and run your own attacks  
but don’t have your own network? ANALYTIC DEVELOPMENT WORKFLOW 
| 15 | 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Detection and Analytics | John Wunder 
LEVEL 3 
Feel confident that you’re cranking out quality analytics to detect attacks from Atomic  
Red Team? Test that confidence and improve your defenses by doing some purple  
teaming! It allows the operator to pick one technique or chain many together when  
building the test, which allows you to start to automate sequences of behaviors for your  
testing rather than manually executing single Atomic Tests. Since everything is structured in ATT&CK, we can use the ATT&CK Navigator to  
compare the techniques we could do with a tool we already have, like Cobalt Strike, to  
the techniques that we know OilRig has done based on open source reporting. | 41 | 
|  Solving Problems for a Safer World