 21  
A digital forensic workstation is specially designed to assist incident handlers in acquiring and analyzing data. COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
23 
Incident Analysis Resources: 
 Port lists, including commonly used ports and Trojan horse ports 
 Documentation for OSs, applications, protocols, and intrusion detection and antivirus products 
 Network diagrams and lists of critical assets, such as database servers 
 Current baselines of expected network, system, and application activity 
 Cryptographic hashes of critical files22 to speed incident analysis, verification, and eradication 
Incident Mitigation Software: 
 Access to images of clean OS and application installations for restoration and recovery purposes 
Many incident response teams create a jump kit, which is a portable case that contains materials that may 
be needed during an investigation. The jump kit should be ready to go at all times. Jump kits contain 
many of the same items listed in the bulleted lists above. For example, each jump kit typically includes a 
laptop, loaded with appropriate software (e.g., packet sniffers, digital forensics). Other important 
materials include backup devices, blank media, and basic networking equipment and cables. In addition to an investigative laptop, each incident handler should also 
have a standard laptop, smart phone, or other computing device for writing reports, reading email, and 
performing other duties unrelated to the hands-on incident analysis. An example is 
fraud detection services that will notify an organization if its IP addresses, domain names, etc. Profiling is measuring the characteristics of expected activity so that 
changes to it can be more easily identified. However, some incidents may not have smooth recovery 
paths and may need to be queued for a more strategic-level response—for example, an incident that 
results in an attacker exfiltrating and publicly posting gigabytes of sensitive data has no easy recovery 
path since the data is already exposed; in this case the team may transfer part of the responsibility for 
handling the data exfiltration incident to a more strategic-level team that develops strategy for preventing 
future breaches and creates an outreach plan for alerting those individuals or organizations whose data 
was exfiltrated. A study of incident characteristics may indicate systemic security weaknesses and threats, as well 
as changes in incident trends. Profiling measures the characteristics of expected activity levels so 
that changes in patterns can be more easily identified. COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
48 
 
4.2 
Information Sharing Techniques 
Information sharing is a key element of enabling coordination across organizations. When selecting existing data exchange models, organizations may prefer to select 
multiple models that model different aspects of the incident response domain and then leverage these 
models in a modular fashion, communicating only the information needed at a specific decision point in 
the life cycle. Appendix E provides a non-exhaustive list of existing standards defining data exchange 
models that are applicable to the incident response domain. These transport mechanisms include, at a 
minimum, the transport protocol for exchanging the information, the architectural model for 
communicating with an information resource, and the applicable ports and domain names for accessing an 
information resource in a particular organization. For example, a group of partner organizations may 
decide to exchange incident information using a Representational State Transfer (REST) architecture to 
exchange IODEF/Real-Time Inter-Network Defense (RID) data over Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure 
(HTTPS) on port 4590 of a specific domain name within each organization’s DMZ. External indicators, such as the general characteristics of attacks and the identity of 
attacking hosts, are usually safe to share with others. Information 
sharing is a key element of enabling coordination across organizations. For example, external indicators, such as the general characteristics of attacks 
and the identity of attacking hosts, are usually safe to share with others, but there may be both 
security and liability reasons why an organization would not want to reveal the details of an exploited 
vulnerability. (Section 2.4.2) 
A.2 Scenarios 
Scenario 1: Domain Name System (DNS) Server Denial of Service (DoS) 
On a Saturday afternoon, external users start having problems accessing the organization’s public 
websites. Profiling: Measuring the characteristics of expected activity so that changes to it can be more easily 
identified. 1.1) 
 Added a mention of exercises (Section 3.1.1) 
 Revised the attack vectors (formerly incident categories) (Section 3.2.1) 
COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
70 
 Added SIEMs, network flows as common sources of precursors and indicators (Section 3.2.3) 
 Expanded discussion of eradication and recovery (Section 3.3.4) 
 Added a section on coordination and information sharing (Section 4) 
 Added a table of data exchange specifications applicable to incident handling (Appendix E)