 You could repeat this for each of the  
software samples that we’ve mapped the group using, which we track separately on the  
ATT&CK website. Those data sources describe the types of data that 
could give you visibility into the given technique. Once you’ve got data in your SIEM you’re ready to try some analytics. If you’re looking at your own  
enterprise data, it’s hopefully benign or known red team data—if not, maybe stop reading  
this chapter and figure out what you’re dealing with. An easy way to do that is to use Atomic  
Red Team, an open source project led by Red Canary that provides red team content  
aligned to ATT&CK that can be used to test analytics. For example, you can find their  
list of attacks for Regsvr32, including Squiblydoo. Of course, if you’re already doing red  
teaming, feel free to run the attacks you know yourself (on systems where you have  
permission!) and try to develop analytics for those! Bonus Level 0 Content: Really want to create your own analytics and run your own attacks  
but don’t have your own network? I  
picked Squiblydoo as an example because it’s an easy one: there’s no legitimate reason  
to have regsvr32.exe call out to the Internet, so a simple analytic is to look for times when  
the regsvr32.exe process is created and the command line includes “/i:http”. A general pattern to follow is to write the search to detect malicious behavior, revise it to  
filter out false positives, make sure it still detects the malicious behavior, and then repeat  
to reduce other sorts of false positives. Test that confidence and improve your defenses by doing some purple  
teaming! So, we open up our command prompt, copy and paste the command, add in the 
computer name, and execute the command. It allows the operator to pick one technique or chain many together when  
building the test, which allows you to start to automate sequences of behaviors for your  
testing rather than manually executing single Atomic Tests. But if you’re not pulling in the right data sources, what should you do? Once you feel comfortable with the process, perform a data source analysis and come  
up with a heatmap of which techniques you could detect given the data sources you’re  
pulling in. ATT&CK SITE SEARCH FOR PORT 22 
Another important aspect to consider are the Group and Software examples listed  
along with a technique. Square What data sources does the tool monitor? As an example, you might not be able to install Sysmon on each  
of your endpoints, but your existing software might be able to forward relevant logs that  
you might not otherwise have access to. Prior to working at MITRE, Andy received his PhD in computer 
science from the University of California Davis. Prior 
to joining MITRE, Adam was a researcher at Carnegie Mellon’s Parallel Data 
Lab and earned his BS and MS degrees in computer science and electrical 
and computer engineering as well as the 2017 Alumni Service Award from Carnegie 
Mellon University. Blake 
is a graduate of the computer science program at the University of California, Berkeley. | 41 | 
|  Solving Problems for a Safer World