  CSIRT: A Computer Security Incident Response Team is a service organization that is responsible for receiving, 
reviewing, and responding to computer security incident reports and activity. e) 
Lessons are learnt quickly from information security incidents, vulnerabilities and associated management. It will also be possible to 
demonstrate the benefits associated with the rapid availability of solution information. d) 
Activity to establish the ISIRT, with an appropriate training program designed, developed and provided to 
its personnel. 6) Anti-malicious code software. 7) Audit log records, and log monitoring software. g) 
Activity to design and develop an information security event, incident and vulnerability management 
awareness and training program. k) 
An overview of the information security incident management awareness and training program. These policies need to refer to a 
corporate information security incident management policy and associated scheme explicitly. In any event, the decision should be based on the 
actual or projected adverse impacts on the organization's business operations, and associated 
guidance. ix) Material for the information security event, incident and vulnerability management awareness 
and training program. There should be a specific training program for the PoC, ISIRT members, information 
security personnel and specific administrators, as necessary. In some cases, it may be desirable for the organization to include awareness detail specifically about 
information security incident management in other training programs (for example, personnel orientation 
programs or general corporate security awareness programs). This awareness approach may provide 
valuable context relevant to particular groups of people, and improves training program effectiveness and 
efficiency. Before the information security incident management scheme becomes operational, the organization should 
ensure that all relevant personnel are familiar with the procedures involved in the detection and reporting of 
information security events, and selected personnel are very knowledgeable about the subsequent activities. This should be followed up by regular awareness briefings and training courses. These phases and their 
associated activities were introduced in Clause 4.5. The 
organization should ensure that the appropriate personnel deal with reported information security 
vulnerabilities in a similar manner to how non-information security faults are handled, possibly with 
assessment and resolution using technical personnel (who may or may not be members of the ISIRT). For example, if it is determined that the cause of an information security incident is an IT hardware or software 
fault without an available patch, the supplier should be contacted immediately. 9.7 Other improvements 
Other improvements may have been identified during the lessons learnt phase, for example changes in 
information security policies, standards and procedures, and changes to IT hardware and software 
configurations. Such attacks are often performed through Botnets, a collection of software robots (malicious code) that run 
autonomously and automatically. due to air conditioning 
failure), 
 
system malfunctions or overload, 
 
uncontrolled system changes, 
 
malfunctions of software or hardware. B.1.3 
Malicious code 
Malicious code identifies a program or part of a program inserted into another program with the intent to 
modify its original behaviour, usually to perform malicious activities as information and identify theft, 
information and resource destruction, Denial of Service, Spam, etc. Malicious code attacks could be divided 
into five categories: viruses, worms, Trojan horses, mobile code and blended. This is sometimes performed modifying an existing malicious code, creating a variant that often is not 
recognized by malicious code detection technologies. Hardware failure, software malfunction, overloading 
(saturating the capacity of information systems), breach of 
maintainability, etc. Malware 
incident 
The loss of information 
security is caused by 
malicious programs that are 
created and disseminated 
deliberately. Computer virus, network worm, Trojan horse, botnet, 
blended attacks, malicious code embedded web page, 
malicious code hosting site, etc. A computer virus is a set of computer instructions or code 
which is inserted into computer programs. Botnets are deliberately formed through infecting a mass of 
computers on networks with bot programs. Blended attacks may have combined characteristics of 
computer viruses, network worms, Trojan horses or 
botnets and so on. Blended attacks may also result from 
the combined operations of a series of different malicious 
programs. For example, a computer virus or network worm 
intrudes into a computer system, and then installs a Trojan 
horse in the system. A malicious code embedded web page defaces website by 
including malicious code that installs malware on a 
computer system accessing it. A malicious code hosting site decoys a website to host 
malicious code which is downloaded by targeted users. Exploitation of vulnerability exploits and makes use of 
information system defects such as configurations, 
protocols or programs. Exploitation of backdoor makes use of the backdoors or 
harmful programs left in software and hardware system 
design processes. Interception, spying, eavesdropping, disclosure,
masquerade, social engineering, network phishing, theft of 
data, loss of data, tampering with data, data error, data 
flow analysis, position detection, etc. Interception captures data before it is able to reach the 
intended recipients. Theft of data is to steal data. Tampering with data is to touch or make changes to data 
without authorization. Data error is to make mistakes when inputting or 
processing data. 9.1 Information/Data 
 
9.2 Hardware 
 
9.3 Software 
 
9.4 Communications 
 
9.5 Documentation 
 
9.6 Processes 
 
9.7 Other 
 
10. In those countries where 
specific legislation exists that covers data confidentiality and integrity, it is often restricted to the control of 
personal data.  
Legal Aspects Associated with Monitoring Techniques are Addressed. txt?number=2196 
[14] 
Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) RFC 2350, Expectations for Computer Security Incident 
Response, http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2350.txt?number=2350 
[15] 
NIST 
Special 
Publication 
800-61, 
Computer 
Security 
Incident 
Handling 
Guide 
(2004), http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800-61-rev1/SP800-61rev1. pdf 
[22] 
Software Engineering Institute at Carnegie Mellon “CERT Coordination Centre”, Handbook for 
Computer Security Incident Response Teams (CSIRTs), http://www.cert.org/archive/pdf/csirt-
handbook.pdf 
[23] 
Software Engineering Institute at Carnegie Mellon “CERT Coordination Centre”, State of the Practice 
of Computer Security Incident Response Teams, http://www.cert.org/archive/pdf/03tr001. pdf 
[24] 
Software Engineering Institute at Carnegie Mellon “CERT Coordination Centre”, CSIRT 
Services, http://www.cert.org/csirts/services.html 
[25] 
Software Engineering Institute at Carnegie Mellon “CERT Coordination Centre”, Action List for 
Developing 
a 
Computer 
Security 
Incident 
Response 
Team 
(CSIRT), http://www.cert.org/csirts/action_list.html 
[26] 
Software Engineering Institute at Carnegie Mellon “CERT Coordination Centre”, Staffing Your 
Computer 
Security 
Incident 
Response 
Team 
– 
What 
Basic 
Skills 
Are 
Needed? Tel: +44 (0)20 8996 7070
Email: copyright@bsigroup.com