 http://dx.doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-61r2
COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
iv 
Abstract 
Computer security incident response has become an important component of information technology (IT) 
programs. The guidelines can be followed independently of particular hardware platforms, operating systems, 
protocols, or applications. ................... 53 
Appendix B— Incident-Related Data Elements .....................................................................58 
B.1 Basic Data Elements ............................................................................................... 58 
B.2 Incident Handler Data Elements .............................................................................. Coordination Relationships ......................................................................................47 
COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
1 
Executive Summary 
Computer security incident response has become an important component of information technology (IT) 
programs. The guidelines can be followed 
independently of particular hardware platforms, operating systems, protocols, or applications. COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
4 
1. The incident response program structure should also be 
discussed within the plan.  Software Vendors. For example, a contractor may determine 
what user ID was used in an incident (e.g., ID 123456) but not know what person is associated with 
the user ID.  Create a mentoring program to enable senior technical staff to help less experienced staff learn 
incident handling. The incident response policy is the foundation of the incident 
response program. The incident response 
plan provides a roadmap for implementing an incident response program based on the organization’s 
policy. The plan indicates both short- and long-term goals for the program, including metrics for 
measuring the program. COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
21 
3. Although the incident 
response team is not typically responsible for incident prevention, it is fundamental to the success of 
incident response programs.  if a permanent war room is not necessary or 
practical, the team should create a procedure for procuring a temporary war room when needed 
 Secure storage facility for securing evidence and other sensitive materials 
Incident Analysis Hardware and Software: 
 Digital forensic workstations21 and/or backup devices to create disk images, preserve log files, and 
save other relevant incident data 
 Laptops for activities such as analyzing data, sniffing packets, and writing reports 
 Spare workstations, servers, The jump kit should be ready to go at all times. Jump kits contain 
many of the same items listed in the bulleted lists above. For example, each jump kit typically includes a 
laptop, loaded with appropriate software (e.g., packet sniffers, digital forensics). Other important 
materials include backup devices, blank media, and basic networking equipment and cables. Note that because this laptop is special purpose, 
it is likely to use software other than the standard enterprise tools and configurations, and whenever 
possible the incident handlers should be allowed to specify basic technical requirements for these special-
purpose investigative laptops. In addition to an investigative laptop, each incident handler should also 
have a standard laptop, smart phone, or other computing device for writing reports, reading email, and 
performing other duties unrelated to the hands-on incident analysis. 23  
Guide to Test, Training, and Exercise Programs for IT Plans and Capabilities, 
http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/PubsSPs.html#800-84  
COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
24 
operating system and application-specific guidelines.24 The following text, however, provides a brief 
overview of some of the main recommended practices for securing networks, systems, and applications: 
 Risk Assessments.  External/Removable Media: An attack executed from removable media or a peripheral device—for 
example, malicious code spreading onto a system from an infected USB flash drive.  Email: An attack executed via an email message or attachment—for example, exploit code disguised 
as an attached document or a link to a malicious website in the body of an email message. Antivirus and 
antispam 
software 
Antivirus software detects various forms of malware, generates alerts, and prevents the malware 
from infecting hosts. File integrity 
checking 
software 
File integrity checking software can detect changes made to important files during incidents. are associated with current incident activity involving other organizations. However, many incidents are 
not associated with such clear symptoms. The 
length of time to maintain log data is dependent on several factors, including the organization’s data 
retention policies and the volume of data.  Filter the Data. Organizations should focus on collecting data that is actionable, rather than collecting data simply 
because it is available. Besides using these metrics to measure the team’s success, organizations may also find it useful to 
periodically audit their incident response programs.  Data Retention. Original hardware (e.g., hard drives, compromised systems) that is stored as evidence, as well 
as hard drives and removable media that are used to hold disk images, are generally individually 
inexpensive. The organization also must retain functional computers that can use the stored hardware 
and media. Examples include contact lists, encryption software, network diagrams, backup devices, digital 
forensic software, and port lists. Intrusion detection and prevention systems, antivirus software, and file integrity checking 
software are valuable for detecting signs of incidents. Each type of software may detect incidents that 
the other types of software cannot, so the use of several types of computer security software is highly 
recommended.  Safeguard incident data. (Sections 3.3.1, 3.3.4) 
                                                      
48  
For additional information on exercises, see NIST SP 800-84, Guide to Test, Training, and Exercise Programs for IT Plans 
and Capabilities, which is available at http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/PubsSPs.html#800-84. COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
53 
5. COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
55 
2. The payroll 
program is still logged in and on the main menu, as it was when she left it, but the administrator notices 
that the mouse appears to have been moved. How would the handling of this incident differ if the internal IP address was associated with the 
organization’s wireless guest network? The team reviews the intrusion 
detection, firewall, and VPN server logs and identifies the user ID that was authenticated for the session 
and the name of the user associated with the user ID. Computer Security Incident: See “incident.” 
Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT): A capability set up for the purpose of assisting 
in responding to computer security-related incidents; also called a Computer Incident Response Team 
(CIRT) or a CIRC (Computer Incident Response Center, Computer Incident Response Capability). Malware: A virus, worm, Trojan horse, or other code-based malicious entity that successfully infects a 
host. Signature: A recognizable, distinguishing pattern associated with an attack, such as a binary string in a 
virus or a particular set of keystrokes used to gain unauthorized access to a system. In general, an incident is a violation of computer security policies, acceptable use policies, or 
standard computer security practices. In some cases, firewall and router configurations may need to be modified 
to stop network traffic that is part of an incident, such as a denial of service (DoS) attack. 1.1) 
 Added a mention of exercises (Section 3.1.1) 
 Revised the attack vectors (formerly incident categories) (Section 3.2.1) 
COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
70 
 Added SIEMs, network flows as common sources of precursors and indicators (Section 3.2.3) 
 Expanded discussion of eradication and recovery (Section 3.3.4) 
 Added a section on coordination and information sharing (Section 4) 
 Added a table of data exchange specifications applicable to incident handling (Appendix E)