 Despite these great resources, it felt like most of the material out there either introduced  
what ATT&CK is or dove deeply into advanced topics around ATT&CK. | 3 | 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Threat Intelligence | Katie Nickels 
So how do we make this information actionable, which is the whole point of threat  
intelligence? | 5 | 
 
  
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Threat Intelligence | Katie Nickels 
6. LEVEL 3 
If your CTI team is advanced, you can start to map more information to ATT&CK, and  
then use that information to prioritize how you defend. If our defenders have already done an assessment of what they can detect (which we’ll  
cover in future chapters), you can overlay that information onto what you know about  
your threats. To start,  
look at the technique description from ATT&CK and the threat intel reports linked in the  
examples. For example, you can find their  
list of attacks for Regsvr32, including Squiblydoo. Of course, if you’re already doing red  
teaming, feel free to run the attacks you know yourself (on systems where you have  
permission!) and try to develop analytics for those! Bonus Level 0 Content: Really want to create your own analytics and run your own attacks  
but don’t have your own network? Once you’re this advanced and are building out a corpus of analytics, you’ll 
want to use ATT&CK (either via the ATT&CK Navigator or using your own tools) to track 
what you can and can’t cover. Adversary emulators construct a scenario to test certain aspects of an adversary’s tactics, 
techniques, and procedures (TTPs). Since ATT&CK is a large knowledge base of real-world adversary behaviors, it doesn’t take much  
imagination to draw a connection between adversary or red team behaviors and ATT&CK. It allows the operator to pick one technique or chain many together when  
building the test, which allows you to start to automate sequences of behaviors for your  
testing rather than manually executing single Atomic Tests. with known threats that may target  
the organization. Having that  
knowledge helps the red team use different behaviors between tests to better cover  
what threats are known to do as part of the adversary emulation process. PROCESS FOR CREATING AN ADVERSARY EMULATION PLAN 
| 26 | 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Adversary Emulation and Red Teaming | Blake Strom, Tim Schulz, and Katie Nickels 
1. Gather threat intel—Select an adversary based on the threats to your organization 
and work with the CTI team to analyze intelligence about what the adversary has 
done. Consider: 
Square How did the threat group use this technique? Even if you  
consider yourself an advanced cybersecurity team, we still encourage you to start at Level 1 and  
walk through the process to ease into a larger assessment. Additionally, you’ll likely want to use a more advanced coverage scheme to now 
account for fidelity of detection as well. These describe the procedures, or specific ways, an adversary  
has used a technique. You can also check out our paper on Finding Cyber  
Threats with ATT&CK-based Analytics for more guidance on this process. | 36 | 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Assessments and Engineering | Andy Applebaum 
LEVEL 3 
For those with more advanced teams, a great way you can amp up your assessment is to 
include mitigations. By leveraging 
ATT&CK to show how your defenses stack up to real threats, you’ll be able to better 
understand your defensive posture and prioritize your improvements. Katie Nickels is the ATT&CK threat intelligence lead at MITRE, where she 
focuses on sharing how ATT&CK is useful for moving toward a threat-
informed defense. She is also a SANS instructor for FOR578: Cyber Threat 
Intelligence. | 40 | 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
Blake Strom is the capability area lead for adversary emulation at MITRE 
and has worked in the areas of network defense, cyber threat intelligence, 
security research, and adversary emulation. | 41 | 
|  Solving Problems for a Safer World