 A computer security incident is a violation or imminent threat of violation1 of computer security policies, 
acceptable use policies, or standard security practices. However, most policies 
include the same key elements: 
 Statement of management commitment 
 Purpose and objectives of the policy 
                                                      
3  
http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/circulars/a130/a130trans4.html 
4  
http://csrc.nist.gov/drivers/documents/FISMA-final.pdf  
5  
http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/PubsFIPS.html  
6  
http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/memoranda/fy2007/m07-16. Software vendors may also provide information on known threats (e.g., new attacks) to help 
organizations understand the current threat environment. The jump kit should be ready to go at all times. Jump kits contain 
many of the same items listed in the bulleted lists above. For example, each jump kit typically includes a 
laptop, loaded with appropriate software (e.g., packet sniffers, digital forensics). Other important 
materials include backup devices, blank media, and basic networking equipment and cables. In addition to an investigative laptop, each incident handler should also 
have a standard laptop, smart phone, or other computing device for writing reports, reading email, and 
performing other duties unrelated to the hands-on incident analysis. Exercises involving simulated incidents can also be very useful for preparing staff for incident handling; 
see NIST SP 800-84 for more information on exercises23 and Appendix A for sample exercise scenarios. Periodic risk assessments of systems and applications should determine what 
risks are posed by combinations of threats and vulnerabilities.25 This should include understanding the 
applicable threats, including organization-specific threats. Routers and 
other networking devices can provide network flow information, which can be used to find 
anomalous network activity caused by malware, data exfiltration, and other malicious acts. Incident handlers should consider how this information exfiltration will impact the 
organization’s overall mission. An incident that results in the exfiltration of sensitive information may 
also affect other organizations if any of the data pertained to a partner organization. Combining the functional impact to the organization’s systems and the impact to the organization’s 
information determines the business impact of the incident—for example, a distributed denial of service 
attack against a public web server may temporarily reduce the functionality for users attempting to access 
the server, whereas unauthorized root-level access to a public web server may result in the exfiltration of 
personally identifiable information (PII), which could have a long-lasting impact on the organization’s 
reputation. However, some incidents may not have smooth recovery 
paths and may need to be queued for a more strategic-level response—for example, an incident that 
results in an attacker exfiltrating and publicly posting gigabytes of sensitive data has no easy recovery 
path since the data is already exposed; in this case the team may transfer part of the responsibility for 
handling the data exfiltration incident to a more strategic-level team that develops strategy for preventing 
future breaches and creates an outreach plan for alerting those individuals or organizations whose data 
was exfiltrated. Each incident response team should evolve to reflect new threats, improved technology, and 
lessons learned. A study of incident characteristics may indicate systemic security weaknesses and threats, as well 
as changes in incident trends. Absolute numbers are not informative—understanding how 
they represent threats to the business processes of the organization is what matters. Organizations should 
decide what incident data to collect based on reporting requirements and on the expected return on 
investment from the data (e.g., identifying a new threat and mitigating the related vulnerabilities before 
they can be exploited.) The most important aspect of 
incident response coordination is information sharing, where different organizations share threat, attack, 
and vulnerability information with each other so that each organization’s knowledge benefits the other. Scenario 5: Unknown Exfiltration 
On a Sunday night, one of the organization’s network intrusion detection sensors alerts on anomalous 
outbound network activity involving large file transfers. Based on an investigation, the physical security team believes that the threats should be taken seriously 
and notifies the appropriate internal teams, including the incident response team, of the threats. What should the incident response team do differently, if anything, in response to the notification 
of the threats? Incident: A violation or imminent threat of violation of computer security policies, acceptable use 
policies, or standard security practices. Threat: The potential source of an adverse event. 1.1) 
 Added a mention of exercises (Section 3.1.1) 
 Revised the attack vectors (formerly incident categories) (Section 3.2.1) 
COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
70 
 Added SIEMs, network flows as common sources of precursors and indicators (Section 3.2.3) 
 Expanded discussion of eradication and recovery (Section 3.3.4) 
 Added a section on coordination and information sharing (Section 4) 
 Added a table of data exchange specifications applicable to incident handling (Appendix E)