 Is it important that all relevant instances of a technique 
being seen get tagged with an ATT&CK mapping even if it may not have been performed due to 
a real incident? There should be 
enough information and references to point toward 
useful defensive methodologies. There could be 
many ways of detecting a (sub-)technique but 
ATT&CK and MITRE do not endorse any particular 
vendor solution. All Rights Reserved 
Approved for Public Release. Distribution unlimited 19-01075-28. 
for a given (sub-)technique and should be 
documented as such. Mitigation* 
Relationship 
/ Field 
Configurations, tools, or process that can prevent a 
(sub-)technique from working or having the desired 
outcome for an adversary. This section is intended to 
inform those responsible for mitigating against 
adversaries (such as network defenders or 
policymakers) to allow them to take an action such 
as changing a policy or deploying a tool. Mitigation 
fields are populated on a (sub-)technique page when 
a mitigation object is associated to a 
(sub-)technique.. The relationship describes the 
details of how a specific mitigation can be applied to 
the (sub-)technique. Mitigation recommendations 
remain vendor agnostic, recommending the general 
method or capability class rather than a specific tool. Mitigation may not always be possible for a given 
(sub-)technique and is documented as such if no 
relationships to a given (sub-)technique are present. Defenders in this context refer to threat hunters, malware analysts, and incident 
responders. New and updated information related 
to detections, data sources, mitigations, best practices and other aspects of ATT&CK are used to 
enhance the information in the knowledge base. The 
mid-level model is also a useful construct to tie in threat intelligence and incident data to show 
who is doing what as well as the prevalence of use for particular techniques. Sometimes techniques or sub-techniques can have multiple required steps within them, some of 
these steps may be relatable to other existing techniques or steps that could be individual 
techniques. Areas where technical references are useful include: background on the technique, expected use 
in benign cases, general use examples, variations of a technique, relevant tools and open source 
code repositories, detection examples and best practices, and mitigation categories and best 
practices. Sources should be known to be reputable within the cybersecurity community and demonstrate 
intelligence analysis best practices. Analysts should also use caution and not assume 
a technique was used if it is not explicitly stated or could not have happened in any other way 
during the reported incident. 4.3.6 Examples of Applying the Methodology for New Techniques 
This section considers two separate techniques – Process Injection and SQL Injection – and steps 
through the methodology described above to illustrate when and how to add new techniques to 
the ATT&CK knowledge base. [Accessed 16 March 2020].