 The UK participation in its preparation was entrusted to Technical
Committee IST/33, IT - Security techniques. .................................... 8 
5.2 
Information security incident management policy .......................................................................... 10 
5.3 
Information security incident management integration in other policies ..................................... 12 
5.4 
Information security incident management scheme ....................................................................... 13 
5.5 
Establishment of the ISIRT ................................... ............................................................................. 31 
8.2 
Responses ........................................................................................................................................... 32 
9 
Lessons learnt phase .......................................................................................................................... 40 
9.1 
Overview of key activities ............................................. Insufficient preparation 
by an organization to deal with such incidents will make any response less effective, and increase the degree 
of potential adverse business impact. Other common functions (with similar 
abbreviations) within the incident handling may have a slightly different scope and purpose. The primary steps to minimize the direct negative impact of information security incidents are the following: 
 
stop and contain, 
 
eradicate, 
 
analyse and report, and 
 
follow up. e) 
Lessons are learnt quickly from information security incidents, vulnerabilities and associated management. a) 
Improving overall information security 
A structured process for the detection, reporting and assessment of and decision-making related to 
information security events and incidents will enable rapid identification and response. The credibility of the organization will be improved by the 
demonstration of its implementation of best practices with respect to information security incident 
management. Analysis of incident related data would enable the identification of patterns and trends, 
thereby facilitating a more accurate focus on incident prevention and thus identification of appropriate 
actions to prevent incidents occurring. e) 
Strengthening evidence 
Clear incident investigation procedures can help to ensure that data collection and handling are 
evidentially sound and legally admissible. and decision on if it is information security incident 
RESPONSES 
 responses to information security incident, including forensic analysis 
 recovery from information security incident 
LESSONS LEARNT 
 further forensic analysis,  if required 
 identification of lessons learnt 
 identification of and making improvements to information security 
 identification of and making improvements to information security risk assessment and 
management review results 
 identification of and making improvements to information security incident management 
scheme 
 
Figure 2 — Information security incident management phases 
4.6 Examples of information security incidents 
Information security incidents may be deliberate or accidental (e.g. This should be preceded by an information 
security review of the organization's vulnerabilities, confirmation of the need for an information security 
incident management scheme, and identification of the benefits to the organization as a whole and to its 
departments (see Clause 5.2). in the handling of malicious code attacks, who will be called upon 
depending on the type of incident concerned (see Clause 5.5). Before the policy is formulated, the organization should conduct an information security review highlighting its 
vulnerabilities, confirmation of the need for information security incident management, and identification of the 
benefits to the organization as a whole and to its departments. It should also include a summary of information security vulnerability reporting and handling. g) 
An overview of information security vulnerability reporting and handling. The integration should aim for the following: 
a) 
To describe why information security incident management, particularly an information security incident 
reporting and handling scheme, is important. b) 
To indicate senior management commitment to the need for proper preparation and response to 
information security incidents, i.e. Even for this situation, organizations should encompass general guidelines in 
the scheme documentation on the steps that may be necessary. 5) Lessons learnt 
i) 
Conducting further information security forensic analysis, as required. ii) 
Identifying the lessons learnt from information security incidents and vulnerabilities. Each operating procedure should clearly identify the steps to be undertaken and by whom. The ISIRT goes through different maturity stages and often adjustments to the organizational model are 
adopted based on the specific scenario faced by the organization. k) 
using cryptographic integrity control to help in determining whether and what parts of the system, service 
and/or network, and what data, were changed, if commensurate with assessed risks, 
l) 
facilitating the archiving and securing of collected information (for example, by applying digital signatures 
to logs and other evidence before off-line storage in read-only media such as CD or DVD ROM), 
m) enabling the preparation of printouts (e.g. In some cases, it may be desirable for the organization to include awareness detail specifically about 
information security incident management in other training programs (for example, personnel orientation 
programs or general corporate security awareness programs). This awareness approach may provide 
valuable context relevant to particular groups of people, and improves training program effectiveness and 
efficiency. Before the information security incident management scheme becomes operational, the organization should 
ensure that all relevant personnel are familiar with the procedures involved in the detection and reporting of 
information security events, and selected personnel are very knowledgeable about the subsequent activities. This should be followed up by regular awareness briefings and training courses. The training should be 
supported by specific exercises and testing for PoC and ISIRT members, and information security personnel 
and specific administrators. In addition, the awareness and training programs should be complemented by the establishment and 
operations of ‘hot line’ support from information security incident management personnel, in order to minimize 
delays in reporting and handling information security events, incidents and vulnerabilities. BS ISO/IEC 27035:2011
ISO/IEC 27035:2011(E) 
22 
© ISO/IEC 2011 – All rights reserved
 
5.8 Scheme testing 
The organization should schedule regular checking and testing of the information security incident 
management processes and procedures to highlight potential flaws and problems that may arise during the 
management of information security events and incidents and vulnerabilities. Periodic tests should be 
organized to check processes/procedures and to verify how the ISIRT responds to severe complex incidents, 
through the simulation of realistic attacks, failures or faults. Particular attention should be paid to the creation 
of the simulated scenarios, which should be based on real new information security threats. Tests should 
involve not only the ISIRT, but all the internal and external organizations that are involved in the management 
of information security incidents. These are followed by the 
Lessons learnt (see Clause 9) phase where improvements are identified and made. The following clauses predominantly address the handling of information security events and incidents. The 
organization should ensure that the appropriate personnel deal with reported information security 
vulnerabilities in a similar manner to how non-information security faults are handled, possibly with 
assessment and resolution using technical personnel (who may or may not be members of the ISIRT). NOTE 
A future International Standard (ISO/IEC 27037) will provide more detailed information on the identification, 
collection, acquisition and preservation of digital evidence. If an information security incident has been resolved, the report should include details of the controls that have 
been taken and any lessons learned (e.g. An information security incident should be correlated to any other event/incident reported to the ISIRT. This 
important activity is to verify if the incident is connected to any other event/incident or it is simply the effect of 
another incident, i.e. For example, an incident that is easily resolved may be dealt with before an incident 
requiring a greater effort. 2) Activity to instigate crisis activities through escalation to crisis handling function, if it is not under 
control or it is going to have a severe impact on the organization's core services (See also 
Clause 8.2.4). The primary goal of the information security incident management scheme and associated activities should be 
the minimization of adverse business impacts, whereas identification of the attacker should be considered a 
secondary goal. This may need to occur at a number of stages, for 
example when an information security incident is confirmed as real, when it is confirmed as under control, 
when it is designated for crisis activities, when it is closed and when post incident review has been completed 
and conclusions reached. This should be included with the information security incident 
reporting form and in the information security event/incident/vulnerability database, continually kept up-to-date 
throughout the cycle of an information security incident from first reporting to completion of post-incident 
review. b) 
Activity to identify the lessons learnt from information security incidents and vulnerabilities. Further, there may be lessons to be learnt from the assessment and resolution of 
reported information security vulnerabilities. The lessons could be in terms of the following: 
a) 
New or changed requirements for information security controls. It 
contributes significantly to the early identification of information security incidents and provides a warning of 
what further information security incidents may arise, based on previous experience and documented 
knowledge. Further, an organization's information systems, 
services and/or networks should be subject to regular vulnerability assessments to aid in the identification of 
vulnerabilities and provide a process of continual system/service/network hardening. 9 (Lessons learnt) – the content could help to monitor 
and review information security incident management. For instance, some of the more common stealth 
scanning and identification techniques can cause older or misconfigured systems or services to crash when 
scanned.  telephone and e-mail 
Incident description 
 
What occurred 
 
How occurred 
 
Why Occurred 
 
Initial views on components/assets affected 
 
Adverse business impacts 
 
Any vulnerability identified 
Incident details 
 
Date and time the incident occurred 
 
Date and time the incident was discovered 
 
Date and time the incident was reported 
Incident category 
Components/assets affected 
Adverse business impact/effect of incident 
Total recovery cost from incident 
Incident resolution 
Person(s)/perpetrator( Incident Number4 
 
3. INFORMATION SECURITY INCIDENT DETAILS 
7.1 Date and Time the Incident Occurred 
 
7.2 Date and Time the Incident was Discovered 
 
7.3 Date and Time the Incident was Reported 
 
7.4 Identity/Contact Details of Reporting Person 
 
7.5 Is the Incident Over? VALUE 
GUIDELINES 
COST 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
5 
This is for more details of the components/assets affected is available as investigation and analysis proceeds (in the 
early stages of event and incident analysis normally only ‘high level’ information will be collected). INCIDENT RESOLUTION 
12.1 Incident Investigation Commenced Date 
 
12.2 Incident Investigator(s) Names(s) 
 
12.3 Incident End Date 
 
12.4 Impact End Date 
 
12.5 Incident Investigation Completion Date 
 
12.6 Reference and Location of Investigation Report 
 
13. http://www.cert.org/csirts/csirt-staffing.html 
[27] 
Software Engineering Institute at Carnegie Mellon “CERT Coordination Centre”, Steps for Creating 
National CSIRTs, http://www.cert.org/archive/pdf/NationalCSIRTs.pdf 
[28] 
SANS Institute, An approach to the ultimate in-depth security event management framework (2008) 
[29] 
SANS Institute, Mining gold, A primer on incident handling and response (2008) 
[30] 
SANS Institute, Incident Handling for SMEs (Small to Medium Enterprises) (2008) 
[31] 
SANS Institute,  Breach Notification in Incident Handling (2008) 
[32] 
SANS Institute, Baselines and Incident Handling (2008) 
[33] 
SANS Institute, Documentation is to Incident Response as an Air Tank is to Scuba Diving (2007) 
[34] 
SANS Institute, Creating and Managing an Incident Response Team for a Large Company (2007) 
[35] 
SANS Institute, An Incident Handling Process for Small and Medium Businesses (2007) 
[36] 
SANS Institute, Incident Management 101 Preparation & Initial Response (aka Identification) (2005) 
[37] 
SANS Institute, Building an Incident Response Program To Suit Your Business (2003) 
[38] 
ISACA, COBIT 4.1 (Section DS5.11), www.isaca. org/cobit 
[39] 
ENISA, A step-by-step approach on how to set up a 
CSIRT, http://www.enisa.europa.eu/act/cert/support/guide 
[40] 
ENISA, CERT cooperation and its further facilitation by relevant 
stakeholders, http://www.enisa.europa.eu/act/cert/background/coop 
BS ISO/IEC 27035:2011
ISO/IEC 27035:2011(E) 
78 
© ISO/IEC 2011 – All rights reserved
 
[41] 
ENISA, A basic collection of good practices for running a 
CSIRT, http://www.enisa.europa. Tel: +44 (0)20 8996 7070
Email: copyright@bsigroup.com