 ATT&CK focuses on how external adversaries compromise and operate within 
computer information networks. It originated out of a project to document and categorize post-
compromise adversary tactics, techniques and procedures (TTPs) against Microsoft Windows 
systems to improve detection of malicious behavior. The goal was to improve post-
compromise detection of threats penetrating enterprise networks through telemetry sensing and 
behavioral analytics [4]. ATT&CK can be used as a tool to create adversary emulation scenarios [5] to test and verify 
defenses against common adversary techniques. ATT&CK can be used as a tool to construct and test behavioral analytics to detect adversarial 
behavior within an environment. This tactic is often used in conjunction with initial access as the means of 
executing code once access is obtained, and lateral movement to expand access to remote 
systems on a network. Defense Bypassed* 
Tag 
If the (sub-)technique can be used to bypass or 
evade a particular defensive tool, methodology, or 
process. There could be 
many ways of detecting a (sub-)technique but 
ATT&CK and MITRE do not endorse any particular 
vendor solution. Mitigation 
fields are populated on a (sub-)technique page when 
a mitigation object is associated to a 
(sub-)technique.. The relationship describes the 
details of how a specific mitigation can be applied to 
the (sub-)technique. Mitigation recommendations 
remain vendor agnostic, recommending the general 
method or capability class rather than a specific tool. Mitigation may not always be possible for a given 
(sub-)technique and is documented as such if no 
relationships to a given (sub-)technique are present. 3.4.3 Sub-Technique Details 
The addition of sub-techniques to ATT&CK in 2020 marked a significant shift to how behavior 
is described within the knowledge base. The change was driven by the need to fix some of the 
technique abstraction level issues that occurred as ATT&CK grew over the years. Software is broken out into two high-level 
categories: tools and malware. Type* 
Tag 
Type of software: malware or tool. Distribution unlimited 19-01075-28. 
security from a defender’s perspective with a top-down view, such as the CIA2 model, focus on 
vulnerability scoring, such as CVSS [6], or primarily account for risk calculations, such as 
DREAD [7]. Defenders in this context refer to threat hunters, malware analysts, and incident 
responders. Similarly, malware databases also exist but typically lack context around how the malware is 
used and by whom. Behavior-based techniques are the focus as opposed to 
exploits and malware because they are numerous but are difficult to reason about them with a 
holistic defensive program other than regular vulnerability scans, rapid patching, and IOCs. Goals such as initial access, discovery, 
and credential access are commonly used to gain and expand access within an environment with 
an ultimate objective of stealing information through collection and exfiltration. One example of the former is 
Credential Dumping [10] for Credential Access where dumping credentials is one method of 
gaining access to new credentials—and credentials can be dumped in several different ways. How many different ways can it be performed with existing 
adversary malware and other tools? • Many adversary groups use this technique, which is a component of tools, scripts, and 
malware. The resulting code execution can be used for a 
number of purposes, including adding or modifying information, gaining access to a system, 
causing the server to download and execute other code which may result in persistence, 
credential access, privilege escalation, collection, and exfiltration. • Fundamentally, SQLi is exploiting a vulnerability in web application software due to 
poor code design and is not a benign behavior that an adversary could use for some 
purpose. • SQLi is a predominant vulnerability that occurs frequently across many different types of 
web applications, regardless of language or platform they are written in. Depending on 
the tool and how it is used, it may create an enormous amount of traffic against an 
internally accessible web server. • Adversaries have been known to use SQLi as a means of gaining access to externally 
available web servers. Conclusions: 
• The context in which SQLi fits within an adversary’s tactical goals puts it within attempts 
to gain access to a system through an existing software vulnerability. An example is for 
initial access in a network compromise by compromising an externally facing application. • SQLi is a variation of an exploitation technique against a specific software technology 
and is an appropriate abstraction within how an adversary performs initial compromise. Even though 
ATT&CK focuses on how adversaries compromise and operate within computer information 
networks and related technologies, the methodology behind how it was built can be applied to 
other areas. Adoption of ATT&CK is widespread across multiple disciplines, including intrusion detection, 
threat hunting, security engineering, threat intelligence, red teaming, and risk management. [11] FIRST, "Common Vulnerability Scoring System v3.0: Specification Document," 2018. [Accessed 16 March 2020].