 Authorization has to be granted to specific users in order to perform tasks that can be 
considered of higher risk. [Ingress Tool 
Transfer](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1105)), execute, and even clean up after running 
malicious code (e.g. Associated Tactics: TA0002, TA0008 
 
T1586: Compromise Accounts 
  Description: Adversaries may compromise accounts with services that can be used during 
targeting. For 
example, an adversary may replace or otherwise infect a legitimate application binary (or 
support files) with a backdoor. (Citation: Google Cloud Mandiant UNC3886 2024) 
  Associated Tactics: TA0003 
 
T1584: Compromise Infrastructure 
  Description: Adversaries may compromise third-party infrastructure that can be used during 
targeting. Prior to targeting, adversaries may compromise the infrastructure of other 
adversaries. (Citation: Shadowserver Strategic Web Compromise) 
 
Typical drive-by compromise process: 
 
1. This may be achieved by using 
malware that shares a common algorithm with the infrastructure the adversary uses to receive 
the malware's communications. Depending on the software and nature of the 
vulnerability, some may be exploited in the browser or require the user to open a file. (Citation: Rhino Labs Cloud Image 
Backdoor Technique Sept 2019) 
 
A tool has been developed to facilitate planting backdoors in cloud container images. (Citation: 
Rhino Labs Cloud Backdoor September 2019) If an adversary has access to a compromised 
AWS instance, and permissions to list the available container images, they may implant a 
backdoor such as a [Web Shell](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1505/003). [Lateral Tool Transfer](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1570)). to gain access to credentials that can be used to access systems, 
services, and network resources. They achieve this by restricting traffic types to enforce organizational policy 
in an attempt to reduce the risk inherent in such connections. ** 
 
Adversaries may use more than one remote access tool with varying command and control 
protocols or credentialed access to remote services so they can maintain access if an access 
mechanism is detected or mitigated. If malware that 
is compatible with the connected system is on the mobile device, the malware could infect the 
machine (especially if Autorun features are enabled). Screen capturing functionality may be included as a 
feature of a remote access tool used in post-compromise operations. Because the alternate 
authentication must be maintained by the system—either in memory or on disk—it may be at 
risk of being stolen through [Credential Access](https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0006) 
techniques. Adversaries can compromise and manipulate devices that perform encryption of network traffic. This poses a greater risk of 
unauthorized disclosure and may help facilitate data manipulation, Credential Access, or 
Collection efforts. (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire)(Citation: Krebs-Anna)(Citation: Krebs-
Bazaar)(Citation: Krebs-Booter) 
  Parent Technique: T1583 
  Associated Tactics: TA0042 
 
T1584.005: Botnet 
  Description: Adversaries may compromise numerous third-party systems to form a botnet that 
can be used during targeting. A botnet is a network of compromised systems that can be 
instructed to perform coordinated tasks. (Citation: Norton Botnet) Instead of purchasing/renting a 
botnet from a booter/stresser service, adversaries may build their own botnet by compromising 
numerous third-party systems. (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire) Adversaries may also conduct 
a takeover of an existing botnet, such as redirecting bots to adversary-controlled C2 
servers. CMSTP.exe can also be abused to [Bypass User Account 
Control](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1548/002) and execute arbitrary commands from a 
malicious INF through an auto-elevated COM interface. When a user 
attempts to browse a website that presents a certificate that is not trusted an error message will 
be displayed to warn the user of the security risk. Adversaries may also 
access externally facing Exchange services, Office 365, or Google Workspace to access email 
using credentials or access tokens. Manipulation may be possible over a network connection or between system processes where 
there is an opportunity deploy a tool that will intercept and change information. An adversary can modify the way these programs are launched 
to get a command prompt or backdoor without logging in to the system. With a sufficient level of access, such accounts may be used to establish secondary 
credentialed access that does not require persistent remote access tools to be deployed on the 
system. (Citation: Unit 
42 Hildegard Malware)(Citation: Trend Micro Exposed Docker APIs) 
 
Additionally, some cryptocurrency mining malware identify then kill off processes for competing 
malware to ensure it’s not competing for resources. Conditional access policies are additional verifications used 
by identity providers and identity and access management systems to determine whether a user 
should be granted access to a resource. An adversary who can determine that the malware was quarantined 
because of its file signature may modify the file to explicitly avoid that signature, and then re-use 
the malware. Associated Tactics: TA0002 
 
T1587.001: Malware 
  Description: Adversaries may develop malware and malware components that can be used 
during targeting. In addition to purchasing malware, adversaries may steal and 
repurpose malware from third-party entities (including other adversaries). Based on this, adversaries may use a file 
extension to disguise malware, such as naming a PHP backdoor code with a file name of 
<code>test.gif</code>. (Citation: PAM Backdoor) 
 
Malicious modifications to the PAM system may also be abused to steal credentials. Access to Registry keys is controlled through 
access control lists and user permissions. This decision may be employed by malware developers and operators to 
reduce their risk of attracting the attention of specific law enforcement agencies or 
prosecution/scrutiny from other entities. Adversaries may upload tools to support their operations, such as making a tool available to a 
victim network to enable [Ingress Tool Transfer](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1105) by 
placing it on an Internet accessible web server. (Citation: Dragos 
Heroku Watering Hole)(Citation: Malwarebytes Heroku Skimmers)(Citation: Intezer App Service 
Phishing) 
 
Adversaries can avoid the need to upload a tool by having compromised victim machines 
download the tool directly from a third-party hosting location (ex: a non-adversary controlled 
GitHub repo), including the original hosting site of the tool. Adversaries may compromise VPSs purchased by third-party 
entities. Adversaries may find vulnerability information by searching open databases or gaining access 
to closed vulnerability databases. (Citation: National Vulnerability Database) 
 
An adversary may monitor vulnerability disclosures/databases to understand the state of 
existing, as well as newly discovered, vulnerabilities. There is usually a delay between when a 
vulnerability is discovered and when it is made public. An adversary may target the systems of 
those known to conduct vulnerability research (including commercial vendors). Knowledge of a 
vulnerability may cause an adversary to search for an existing exploit (i.e. Associated Tactics: TA0002