 If there are no clear procedures, there is a risk that investigation 
activities could be conducted in a reactive mode, by responding to incidents as they occur and 
overlooking what activities are needed. b) 
Activity to update information security and risk management policies at a corporate level and specific 
system, service and network levels. Particular attention 
should be given to the creation of tests that focus on the evolving vulnerability, threat and risk scenarios 
(see Clause 5.8). For guidance on information security risk assessment and management, see ISO/IEC 27005:2008. In some cases, it may be desirable for the organization to include awareness detail specifically about 
information security incident management in other training programs (for example, personnel orientation 
programs or general corporate security awareness programs). This awareness approach may provide 
valuable context relevant to particular groups of people, and improves training program effectiveness and 
efficiency. Before the information security incident management scheme becomes operational, the organization should 
ensure that all relevant personnel are familiar with the procedures involved in the detection and reporting of 
information security events, and selected personnel are very knowledgeable about the subsequent activities. This should be followed up by regular awareness briefings and training courses. BS ISO/IEC 27035:2011
ISO/IEC 27035:2011(E) 
22 
© ISO/IEC 2011 – All rights reserved
 
5.8 Scheme testing 
The organization should schedule regular checking and testing of the information security incident 
management processes and procedures to highlight potential flaws and problems that may arise during the 
management of information security events and incidents and vulnerabilities. The 
organization should ensure that the appropriate personnel deal with reported information security 
vulnerabilities in a similar manner to how non-information security faults are handled, possibly with 
assessment and resolution using technical personnel (who may or may not be members of the ISIRT). Evidence can be protected with cryptography, locks 
and records of access. This may take longer if the vulnerability is fundamental to the 
information system, service and/or network design, or if it is a critical vulnerability. An ISIRT member is also responsible for facilitating the return of the affected facility (whether IT or otherwise) 
to a secure operational state that is not susceptible to a compromise by the same attack, if possible at this 
stage. The restoration of an affected system(s), service(s) and/or network(s) to a secure 
operational state may be achieved through the application of patches for known vulnerabilities or by disabling 
an element that was the subject of the compromise. file, print, communications and e-mail), as well as remote access facilities. g) 
Activity to access the contents of protected or encrypted files (unless prevented by law). i) 
Activity to analyze file access, modification and creation times. b) 
New or changed threat and vulnerability information and thus changes to the organization's existing 
information security risk assessment and management review results. 9.5 Identifying and making improvements to information security risk assessment and 
management review results 
Depending on the severity and impact of an information security incident (or the severity and potential impact 
related to a reported information security vulnerability), an assessment of information security risk assessment 
and management review results may be necessary to take into account new threats and vulnerabilities. In some cases, technical information gathering extends into unauthorized access if, for example, as part of 
searching for vulnerabilities the attacker also attempts to gain unauthorized access. Malware 
incident 
The loss of information 
security is caused by 
malicious programs that are 
created and disseminated 
deliberately. A malicious code embedded web page defaces website by 
including malicious code that installs malware on a 
computer system accessing it. Network scanning, exploitation of vulnerability, exploitation 
of backdoor, login attempts, interference, DoS, etc. Exploitation of backdoor makes use of the backdoors or 
harmful programs left in software and hardware system 
design processes. Compromise 
of 
functions 
incident 
The loss of information 
security is caused by 
deliberately or accidentally 
compromising the functions 
of information systems in 
terms of security. BS ISO/IEC 27035:2011
ISO/IEC 27035:2011(E) 
© ISO/IEC 2011 – All rights reserved 
57
 
Table C.2 — Examples of incident category and severity class 
Severity 
class 
Incident 
Category 
 
Small 
 
Less Serious 
 
Serious 
 
Very Serious 
Technical Attacks 
Failed Attempts 
Single ordinary 
(User compromise) 
Multiple 
(User compromise) 
Single important 
(Application, root 
compromise) 
Mass 
(Application,  root 
compromise) 
Technical Attacks 
 
Annoyance 
(Scratch the 
surface) 
Disturbance 
(Throughput 
impact) 
Unavailability 
(Stop in services) 
Malware 
Single known 
(Detected and 
blocked by 
antivirus 
protection) 
Single unknown 
Multiple infections 
Server infections 
Mass infections 
 
C.3.2 
Example approach 2 
C.3.2.1 Introduction 
This approach presents outline example guidelines for assessing the adverse consequences of information 
security incidents, with each guideline using a scale of 1 (low) to 10 (high) scale to classify the information 
security incidents. C.3.2.3 Commercial and economic interests 
Commercial and economic information needs to be protected, and is valued by considering its value to 
competitors or the effect its compromise could have on commercial interests. 3 Example items of the record for information security vulnerability 
This includes basic information of the information security vulnerability, such as when, what and how the 
vulnerability was identified, as well as the potential impact and the resolution 
Basic information 
Date of vulnerability identified 
Vulnerability number 
Reporting person details 
 
Name 
Contact information such as address, organization, department, telephone and e-mail 
Vulnerability description 
Vulnerability resolution 
D.3 How to use forms 
D.3.1 Format of date and time 
Dates should be entered in the format CCYY-MM-DD (and if required HH-MM-SS). The purpose of the information security vulnerability report form is to provide information about a perceived 
vulnerability, and to act as the repository of information on the resolution of the reported vulnerability. INFORMATION SECURITY INCIDENT CATEGORY 
(One of) 
8.9 Malware 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Network worm 
        Trojan horse 
        Botnet 
        Blended attacks 
 
Malicious code embedded web page 
        Malicious code hosting site 
        Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8. 10 Technical attack 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Network scanning 
        Exploitation of vulnerability 
        Exploitation of backdoor 
 
Login attempts, Interference 
        Denial of Service (DoS) 
        Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8.11 Breach of rule 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Unauthorized use of resources 
        Breach of copyright 
        Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8. 12 Compromise of functions 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Abuse of rights 
        Forging of rights, Denial of actions 
        Mis-operations 
 
Breach of personnel availability 
        Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8.13 Compromise of information 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Interception 
        Spying, Eavesdropping 
        Disclosure 
 
Masquerade, Vulnerability Number6 
 
 
 
3. INFORMATION SECURITY VULNERABILITY DESCRIPTION 
4.1 Date and Time the Vulnerability Reported 
 
4.2 Description in Narrative Terms of the Perceived 
Information Security Vulnerability: 
 
How Vulnerability Noticed 
 
Characteristics of Vulnerability – Physical, Technical, etc. INFORMATION SECURITY VULNERABILITY RESOLUTION 
5.1 Has Vulnerability been Confirmed? This may include: 
- 
those individuals with access to the personal data should, so far as is practical, not personally know 
the person(s) being investigated, 
- 
non-disclosure agreements should be signed by those individuals with access to the personal data 
prior to them being allowed access to it, 
- 
information should only be used for the express purpose for which it has been obtained, i.e. Tel: +44 (0)20 8996 7070
Email: copyright@bsigroup.com