 Preventive activities 
based on the results of risk assessments can lower the number of incidents, but not all incidents can be 
prevented.  Attrition: An attack that employs brute force methods to compromise, degrade, or destroy systems, 
networks, or services.  Users are tricked into opening a “quarterly report” sent via email that is actually malware; running the 
tool has infected their computers and established connections with an external host. 2.2 
Need for Incident Response 
Attacks frequently compromise personal and business data, and it is critical to respond quickly and 
effectively when security breaches occur. Training should be provided for SOP users; the SOP documents can be used as an instructional 
tool. However, residual risk will inevitably persist 
after controls are implemented. During this phase, activity often 
cycles back to detection and analysis—for example, to see if additional hosts are infected by malware 
while eradicating a malware incident. The jump kit should be ready to go at all times. Jump kits contain 
many of the same items listed in the bulleted lists above. For example, each jump kit typically includes a 
laptop, loaded with appropriate software (e.g., packet sniffers, digital forensics). Other important 
materials include backup devices, blank media, and basic networking equipment and cables. In addition to an investigative laptop, each incident handler should also 
have a standard laptop, smart phone, or other computing device for writing reports, reading email, and 
performing other duties unrelated to the hands-on incident analysis. The hashes can be downloaded from http://www.nsrl.nist.gov/. 23  
Guide to Test, Training, and Exercise Programs for IT Plans and Capabilities, 
http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/PubsSPs.html#800-84  
COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
24 
operating system and application-specific guidelines.24 The following text, however, provides a brief 
overview of some of the main recommended practices for securing networks, systems, and applications: 
 Risk Assessments. Each risk should be prioritized, and the 
risks can be mitigated, transferred, or accepted until a reasonable overall level of risk is reached.  Malware Prevention. Software to detect and stop malware should be deployed throughout the 
organization. 25  
Guidelines on risk assessment are available in NIST SP 800-30, Guide for Conducting Risk Assessments, at 
http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/PubsSPs.html#800-30-Rev1. 30  
More information on malware prevention is available from NIST SP 800-83, Guide to Malware Incident Prevention and 
Handling (http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/PubsSPs.html#800-83). Examples of precursors are: 
 Web server log entries that show the usage of a vulnerability scanner 
 An announcement of a new exploit that targets a vulnerability of the organization’s mail server 
 A threat from a group stating that the group will attack the organization. Antivirus and 
antispam 
software 
Antivirus software detects various forms of malware, generates alerts, and prevents the malware 
from infecting hosts. Note that separate workstations should be used for research to minimize the risk to the 
organization from conducting these searches. For example, only authorized personnel should 
have access to the incident database. The delayed containment strategy is dangerous because an 
attacker could escalate unauthorized access or compromise other systems. This data can be put back into the risk assessment process, ultimately 
leading to the selection and implementation of additional controls. For example, a small organization that identifies a 
particularly complex instance of malware on its network may not have the in-house resources to fully 
analyze the malware and determine its effect on the system. What sources might the team use to determine when the compromise had occurred? If the incident response team determined that the initial compromise had been performed through 
a wireless network card in the internal host, how would the team further investigate this activity? What data sources might contain information regarding the identity of the vulnerability scanning 
host? How would the team identify who had been performing the vulnerability scans? How would the handling of this incident differ if the vulnerability scanning were directed at the 
organization’s most critical hosts? How would the handling of this incident differ if the vulnerability scanning were directed at 
external hosts? Scenario 8: Telecommuting Compromise 
On a Saturday night, network intrusion detection software records an inbound connection originating 
from a watchlist IP address. Scenario 11: Unknown Wireless Access Point 
On a Monday morning, the organization’s help desk receives calls from three users on the same floor of a 
building who state that they are having problems with their wireless access. He checks with his teammates and determines that this access point was not deployed by his 
team, so that it is most likely a rogue access point that was established without permission. What should be the first major step in handling this incident (e.g., physically finding the rogue 
access point, logically attaching to the access point)? What is the fastest way to locate the access point? What is the most covert way to locate the 
access point? Vulnerability: A weakness in a system, application, or network that is subject to exploitation or misuse.  Users are tricked into opening a “quarterly report” sent via email that is actually malware; 
running the tool has infected their computers and established connections with an external 
host. 1.1) 
 Added a mention of exercises (Section 3.1.1) 
 Revised the attack vectors (formerly incident categories) (Section 3.2.1) 
COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
70 
 Added SIEMs, network flows as common sources of precursors and indicators (Section 3.2.3) 
 Expanded discussion of eradication and recovery (Section 3.3.4) 
 Added a section on coordination and information sharing (Section 4) 
 Added a table of data exchange specifications applicable to incident handling (Appendix E)