 You might already have this as part of your IT or security 
operations, or it might be something new you need to build. Check out the Boss of the SOC (BOTS) dataset from Splunk or the BRAWL dataset  
from MITRE. For example, you can find their  
list of attacks for Regsvr32, including Squiblydoo. Of course, if you’re already doing red  
teaming, feel free to run the attacks you know yourself (on systems where you have  
permission!) and try to develop analytics for those! Bonus Level 0 Content: Really want to create your own analytics and run your own attacks  
but don’t have your own network? Stand up a VM and monitor it as above, then run the  
attacks on that. Let’s  
explore how security teams can use ATT&CK for adversary emulation to help improve their  
organizations. It allows the operator to pick one technique or chain many together when  
building the test, which allows you to start to automate sequences of behaviors for your  
testing rather than manually executing single Atomic Tests. To make this process more accessible—and following along with the other chapters—we’ve 
broken this section down into three levels based on sophistication and resource availability: 
Square Level 1 for those just starting out who may not have many resources 
Square Level 2 for those who are mid-level teams starting to mature 
Square Level 3 for those with more advanced cybersecurity teams and resources 
Getting started with “assessments” might sound frightening at first—who enjoys being 
assessed?—but ATT&CK assessments are a part of a larger process to provide useful data to 
security engineers and architects justifying threat-based security improvements: 
1. | 38 | 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Assessments and Engineering | Andy Applebaum 
VISUALIZATION OF ATT&CK USE CASES 
| 39 | 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ABOUT THE AUTHORS  
Andy Applebaum is a principal cybersecurity engineer at MITRE where he 
works on applied and theoretical security research problems, primarily in 
the realms of cyber defense, security automation, and automated adversary 
emulation. Adam has presented and published in a number of venues including 
FIRST CTI, USENIX Security, and ACM Transactions on Information and System Security. He spends 
most of his days promoting red and blue team collaboration to help sponsors 
improve their security. He advocates for security 
through verification at all points at which an adversary could be detected or stopped 
because defenders should not wait for a real intrusion to see if their methods work. | 41 | 
|  Solving Problems for a Safer World