 Impact consists of techniques that adversaries use to disrupt availability or compromise integrity 
by manipulating business and operational processes. (Citation: Stantinko Botnet)(Citation: Chrome 
Extension C2 Malware) Adversaries may also use browser extensions to modify browser 
permissions and components, privacy settings, and other security controls for [Defense 
Evasion](https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0005). In principle, containerized resources should provide a clear separation of 
application functionality and be isolated from the host environment. This may compromise the integrity of security solutions by 
causing notable events to go unreported. Network sniffing may reveal configuration details, such as running services, version numbers, 
and other network characteristics (e.g. This could be done to blend traffic patterns with normal activity or 
availability. This may take the form of sending a series 
of packets with certain characteristics before a port will be opened that the adversary can use 
for command and control. [Port 
Knocking](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1205/001)), but can involve unusual flags, 
specific strings, or other unique characteristics. HVAC, elevators, physical security). (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire)(Citation: Krebs-Anna)(Citation: Krebs-
Bazaar)(Citation: Krebs-Booter) 
  Parent Technique: T1583 
  Associated Tactics: TA0042 
 
T1584.005: Botnet 
  Description: Adversaries may compromise numerous third-party systems to form a botnet that 
can be used during targeting. A botnet is a network of compromised systems that can be 
instructed to perform coordinated tasks. (Citation: Norton Botnet) Instead of purchasing/renting a 
botnet from a booter/stresser service, adversaries may build their own botnet by compromising 
numerous third-party systems. (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire) Adversaries may also conduct 
a takeover of an existing botnet, such as redirecting bots to adversary-controlled C2 
servers. Adversaries may search CDN data to gather actionable information. (Citation: Twitter CMSTP Jan 2018) (Citation: GitHub Ultimate 
AppLocker Bypass List) (Citation: Endurant CMSTP July 2018) This execution may also bypass 
AppLocker and other application control defenses since CMSTP.exe is a legitimate binary that 
may be signed by Microsoft. CMSTP.exe can also be abused to [Bypass User Account 
Control](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1548/002) and execute arbitrary commands from a 
malicious INF through an auto-elevated COM interface. Code signing provides a level of authenticity for a program from the developer and a guarantee 
that the program has not been tampered with. (Citation: Huntress API Hash)(Citation: IRED API Hashing) 
 
To avoid static or other defensive analysis, adversaries may use dynamic API resolution to 
conceal malware characteristics and functionalities. When 
calling this API, the user will be prompted to enter their credentials but no checks on the origin 
or integrity of the program are made. (Citation: Antiquated Mac Malware) 
 
On macOS, the configurations for how applications run are listed in property list (plist) files. Cloned 
certificate chains will carry many of the same metadata characteristics of the source and can be 
used to sign malicious code that may then bypass signature validation tools (ex: Sysinternals, 
antivirus, etc.) Code signing provides a level of authenticity on 
a binary from the developer and a guarantee that the binary has not been tampered with. The Windows security subsystem is a set of components that manage 
and enforce the security policy for a computer or domain. The Local Security Authority (LSA) is 
the main component responsible for local security policy and user authentication. These 
LaunchDaemons have property list files which point to the executables that will be launched 
(Citation: Methods of Mac Malware Persistence). Since mshta.exe executes outside of the Internet Explorer's security context, it 
also bypasses browser security settings. (Citation: Microsoft TxF) To ensure data integrity, TxF enables only one transacted 
handle to write to a file at a given time. (Citation: Re-Open windows on Mac) When selected, all applications currently open are 
added to a property list file named <code>com.apple.loginwindow. This value causes Windows, at startup, to check 
the file-system integrity of the hard disks if the system has been shut down abnormally. Security reporting messages are important for 
monitoring the normal operation of a system and identifying important events that can signal a 
security incident. A startup item is a directory whose executable 
and configuration property list (plist), <code>StartupParameters.plist</code>, reside in the top-
level directory. TCC is a 
Privacy & Security macOS control mechanism used to determine if the running process has 
permission to access the data or services protected by TCC, such as screen sharing, camera, 
microphone, or Full Disk Access (FDA). When System Integrity Protection 
(SIP) is disabled, TCC protections are also disabled. which may further cause a DoS condition 
and deny availability to critical information, applications and/or systems. Code signing provides a level of authenticity on a binary from the developer 
and a guarantee that the binary has not been tampered with. Code signing provides a level of authenticity for a program from the developer and a guarantee 
that the program has not been tampered with. Code signing provides a level of authenticity on a program from a developer 
and a guarantee that the program has not been tampered with. This DoS attack may also reduce the availability and 
functionality of the targeted system(s) and network. The 
<code>AllowReversiblePasswordEncryption</code> property specifies whether reversible 
password encryption for an account is enabled or disabled. (Citation: store_pwd_rev_enc) 
 
If the property is enabled and/or a user changes their password after it is enabled, an adversary 
may be able to obtain the plaintext of passwords created/changed after the property was 
enabled. SIDs are used by Windows security in both security descriptors and access 
tokens. Adversaries often target the availability of DNS and web 
services, however others have been targeted as well. Because the cryptographic renegotiation has a meaningful cost in 
computation cycles, this can cause an impact to the availability of the service when done in 
volume. This provides the principle of least privilege such that users are running in their lowest 
possible permissions for most of the time and only elevate to other users or permissions as 
needed, typically by prompting for a password. Associated Tactics: TA0002