 The occurrence of an information security event does not necessarily mean that an attempt has been 
successful or that there are any implications on confidentiality, integrity and/or availability, i.e. not all 
information security events are classified as information security incidents. It should be recognized, however, that there is a chance that the actions 
necessary to recover from an information security incident might jeopardize the integrity of any such 
collected evidence. g) 
Improving updates to information security risk assessment and management results 
The use of a structured approach to information security incident management will facilitate the 
- better collection of data for assisting in the identification and determination of the characteristics of the 
various threat types and associated vulnerabilities, and 
- provision of data on frequencies of occurrence of the identified threat types. It will also be possible to 
demonstrate the benefits associated with the rapid availability of solution information. BS ISO/IEC 27035:2011
ISO/IEC 27035:2011(E) 
6 
© ISO/IEC 2011 – All rights reserved
 
An organization using this International Standard should therefore adopt its guidance in due proportion to the 
scale and characteristics of their business. Such mechanisms could include the 
following: 
1) Internal information security audit mechanisms to assess the security level and track vulnerable 
systems, 
2) Vulnerability management (including security updates and security patching of vulnerable systems). The information security incident management 
scheme comes into effect whenever an information security event is detected, or an information security 
vulnerability is reported. Each organization should use the scheme as a guide for: 
a) 
responding to information security events, 
b) 
determining whether information security events become information security incidents, 
c) 
managing information security incidents to a conclusion, 
d) 
responding to information security vulnerabilities, 
e) 
identifying lessons learnt, and any improvements to the scheme and/or security in general that are 
required, and 
f) 
making identified improvements. In some cases, it may be desirable for the organization to include awareness detail specifically about 
information security incident management in other training programs (for example, personnel orientation 
programs or general corporate security awareness programs). This awareness approach may provide 
valuable context relevant to particular groups of people, and improves training program effectiveness and 
efficiency. Before the information security incident management scheme becomes operational, the organization should 
ensure that all relevant personnel are familiar with the procedures involved in the detection and reporting of 
information security events, and selected personnel are very knowledgeable about the subsequent activities. This should be followed up by regular awareness briefings and training courses. In addition, the awareness and training programs should be complemented by the establishment and 
operations of ‘hot line’ support from information security incident management personnel, in order to minimize 
delays in reporting and handling information security events, incidents and vulnerabilities. BS ISO/IEC 27035:2011
ISO/IEC 27035:2011(E) 
22 
© ISO/IEC 2011 – All rights reserved
 
5.8 Scheme testing 
The organization should schedule regular checking and testing of the information security incident 
management processes and procedures to highlight potential flaws and problems that may arise during the 
management of information security events and incidents and vulnerabilities. Periodic tests should be 
organized to check processes/procedures and to verify how the ISIRT responds to severe complex incidents, 
through the simulation of realistic attacks, failures or faults. The 
organization should ensure that the appropriate personnel deal with reported information security 
vulnerabilities in a similar manner to how non-information security faults are handled, possibly with 
assessment and resolution using technical personnel (who may or may not be members of the ISIRT). If there is still a degree of uncertainty as to the authenticity of the information security incident or the 
completeness of the reported information, the ISIRT member should conduct an assessment to determine 
whether the information security incident is real or in fact a false alarm (through use of the organization's 
agreed incident classification scale). The overall objectives in responding to information security incidents are the following: 
a) 
to confine the potential adverse impacts (of information security incidents), and 
b) 
to improve information security. It may be necessary 
to check the integrity of the logs, as a deliberate attacker may have manipulated these logs to cover his/her 
tracks. m) Activity to perform file integrity checks to detect Trojan horse files and files not originally on the system. n) 
Activity to analyze, if applicable, physical evidence, for example fingerprints, property damage, video 
surveillance, alarm system logs, pass card access logs, and interview witnesses. Information gathering incidents caused by non-technical means, resulting in: 
 
direct or indirect disclosure or modification information, 
 
theft of intellectual property stored electronically, 
 
breaches of accountability, e.g. A malicious 
program is inserted into 
information systems to 
damage the confidentiality, 
integrity or availability of 
data, applications or 
operating systems, and/or 
affect the normal operation of 
information systems. Blended attacks may have combined characteristics of 
computer viruses, network worms, Trojan horses or 
botnets and so on. Abuse of rights, forging of rights, denial of actions, mis-
operations, breach of personnel availability, etc. Breach of personnel availability is caused by the lack or 
absence of human resources. If you suspect that an information security event is in progress or may have occurred – particularly one which 
may cause substantial loss or damage to the organization's property or reputation, you should immediately 
complete and submit an information security event report form (see the first part of this Annex) in accordance 
with the procedures described in the organization's information security incident management scheme. unauthorized disclosure) 
 
 
 
 
10.2 Breach of Integrity 
(i.e. unauthorized modification) 
 
 
 
 
10.3 Breach of Availability 
(i.e. INFORMATION SECURITY VULNERABILITY DESCRIPTION 
4.1 Date and Time the Vulnerability Reported 
 
4.2 Description in Narrative Terms of the Perceived 
Information Security Vulnerability: 
 
How Vulnerability Noticed 
 
Characteristics of Vulnerability – Physical, Technical, etc. BS ISO/IEC 27035:2011
ISO/IEC 27035:2011(E) 
74 
© ISO/IEC 2011 – All rights reserved
 
Annex E 
(informative) 
 
Legal and regulatory aspects 
The following legal and regulatory aspects of information security incident management should be addressed 
in the information security incident management policy and associated scheme: 
 
Adequate Data Protection and Privacy of Personal Information is Provided. In those countries where 
specific legislation exists that covers data confidentiality and integrity, it is often restricted to the control of 
personal data. A structured approach 
to information security incident management therefore needs to take into account the appropriate privacy 
protection. The legality 
of different techniques will vary from country to country.  Information technology — Security techniques — Code of practice for information 
security management 
[6] 
ISO/IEC 27003, Information technology — Security techniques — Information security management 
system implementation guidance 
[7] 
ISO/IEC 27004, Information technology — Security techniques — Information security management — 
Measurement 
[8] 
ISO/IEC 27005, Information technology — Security techniques — Information security risk 
management 
[9] 
ISO/IEC 27031, Information technology — Security techniques — Guidelines for information and 
communication technology readiness for business continuity 
[10] 
ISO/IEC 27033-1, Tel: +44 (0)20 8996 7070
Email: copyright@bsigroup.com