 ITL’s responsibilities include the development of management, administrative, 
technical, and physical standards and guidelines for the cost-effective security and privacy of other than 
national security-related information in Federal information systems. Incidents should be prioritized based on the relevant factors, 
such as the functional impact of the incident (e.g., current and likely future negative impact to business 
functions), the information impact of the incident (e.g., effect on the confidentiality, integrity, and 
availability of the organization’s information), and the recoverability from the incident (e.g., the time and 
types of resources that must be spent on recovering from the incident). 1.3 
Audience 
This document has been created for computer security incident response teams (CSIRTs), system and 
network administrators, security staff, technical support staff, chief information security officers (CISOs), 
chief information officers (CIOs), computer security program managers, and others who are responsible 
for preparing for, or responding to, security incidents. A computer security incident is a violation or imminent threat of violation1 of computer security policies, 
acceptable use policies, or standard security practices. One or more team members, depending on the magnitude of the 
incident and availability of personnel, will then handle the incident. 2.4.2 Team Model Selection 
When selecting appropriate structure and staffing models for an incident response team, organizations 
should consider the following factors: 
 The Need for 24/7 Availability. Real-time availability is the best for incident response because the longer 
an incident lasts, the more potential there is for damage and loss. This should 
include sending staff to conferences and encouraging or otherwise incentivizing participation in 
conferences, ensuring the availability of technical references that promote deeper technical 
understanding, and occasionally bringing in outside experts (e.g., contractors) with deep technical 
knowledge in needed areas as funding permits. Legal experts should review incident response plans, policies, and procedures to 
ensure their compliance with law and Federal guidance, including the right to privacy. Some computer security incidents occur through 
breaches of physical security or involve coordinated logical and physical attacks. Examples include monitoring intrusion detection 
sensors, distributing security advisories, and educating users on security. The jump kit should be ready to go at all times. Jump kits contain 
many of the same items listed in the bulleted lists above. For example, each jump kit typically includes a 
laptop, loaded with appropriate software (e.g., packet sniffers, digital forensics). Other important 
materials include backup devices, blank media, and basic networking equipment and cables. Note that because this laptop is special purpose, 
it is likely to use software other than the standard enterprise tools and configurations, and whenever 
possible the incident handlers should be allowed to specify basic technical requirements for these special-
purpose investigative laptops. In addition to an investigative laptop, each incident handler should also 
have a standard laptop, smart phone, or other computing device for writing reports, reading email, and 
performing other duties unrelated to the hands-on incident analysis. Exercises involving simulated incidents can also be very useful for preparing staff for incident handling; 
see NIST SP 800-84 for more information on exercises23 and Appendix A for sample exercise scenarios. In addition 
to keeping each host properly patched, hosts should be configured to follow the principle of least 
privilege—granting users only the privileges necessary for performing their authorized tasks. File integrity 
checking 
software 
File integrity checking software can detect changes made to important files during incidents. Profiling is measuring the characteristics of expected activity so that 
changes to it can be more easily identified. Examples of profiling are running file integrity checking 
software on hosts to derive checksums for critical files and monitoring network bandwidth usage to 
determine what the average and peak usage levels are on various days and times. Because of privacy 
concerns, some organizations may require incident handlers to request and receive permission before 
using packet sniffers. Incidents may affect the confidentiality, integrity, and 
availability of the organization’s information. Information Impact Categories 
Category 
Definition 
None 
No information was exfiltrated, changed, deleted, or otherwise compromised  
Privacy 
Breach 
Sensitive personally identifiable information (PII) of taxpayers, employees, beneficiaries, etc. was accessed or exfiltrated 
Proprietary 
Breach 
Unclassified proprietary information, such as protected critical infrastructure information (PCII), 
was accessed or exfiltrated 
Integrity 
Loss 
Sensitive or proprietary information was changed or deleted 
 
Table 3-4 shows examples of recoverability effort categories that reflect the level of and type of resources 
required to recover from the incident. 44  
Searching and Seizing Computers and Obtaining Electronic Evidence in Criminal Investigations, from the Computer Crime 
and Intellectual Property Section (CCIPS) of the Department of Justice, provides legal guidance on evidence gathering. A study of incident characteristics may indicate systemic security weaknesses and threats, as well 
as changes in incident trends. Intrusion detection and prevention systems, antivirus software, and file integrity checking 
software are valuable for detecting signs of incidents. Profiling measures the characteristics of expected activity levels so 
that changes in patterns can be more easily identified. 4.2.3 Security Considerations 
There are several security considerations that incident response teams should consider when planning 
their information sharing. External indicators, such as the general characteristics of attacks and the identity of 
attacking hosts, are usually safe to share with others. For example, external indicators, such as the general characteristics of attacks 
and the identity of attacking hosts, are usually safe to share with others, but there may be both 
security and liability reasons why an organization would not want to reveal the details of an exploited 
vulnerability. What privacy considerations may impact the handling of this incident? Profiling: Measuring the characteristics of expected activity so that changes to it can be more easily 
identified. CCIPS  
Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section  
CERIAS 
Center for Education and Research in Information Assurance and Security 
CERT®/CC 
CERT® Coordination Center 
CIO 
 
Chief Information Officer 
CIRC  
Computer Incident Response Capability 
CIRC  
Computer Incident Response Center 
CIRT  
Computer Incident Response Team 
CISO   Incident Response Organizations 
Organization 
URL 
Anti-Phishing Working Group (APWG) 
http://www.antiphishing.org/  
Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section (CCIPS), U.S. 
Department of Justice 
http://www.cybercrime.gov/  
CERT® Coordination Center, Carnegie Mellon University (CERT®/CC) 
http://www.cert.org/  
European Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA) 
http://www.enisa.europa. This should include the chief information 
officer (CIO), the head of information security, and the local security manager. 1.1) 
 Added a mention of exercises (Section 3.1.1) 
 Revised the attack vectors (formerly incident categories) (Section 3.2.1) 
COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
70 
 Added SIEMs, network flows as common sources of precursors and indicators (Section 3.2.3) 
 Expanded discussion of eradication and recovery (Section 3.3.4) 
 Added a section on coordination and information sharing (Section 4) 
 Added a table of data exchange specifications applicable to incident handling (Appendix E)