 For each use case, the authors laid out advice on how an organization could get started  
with ATT&CK based on available resources and overall maturity. Understand ATT&CK—Familiarize yourself with the overall structure of ATT&CK: 
tactics (the adversary’s technical goals), techniques (how those goals are achieved), 
and procedures (specific implementations of techniques). For example, you can find their  
list of attacks for Regsvr32, including Squiblydoo. Of course, if you’re already doing red  
teaming, feel free to run the attacks you know yourself (on systems where you have  
permission!) and try to develop analytics for those! Bonus Level 0 Content: Really want to create your own analytics and run your own attacks  
but don’t have your own network? ANALYTIC DEVELOPMENT WORKFLOW 
| 15 | 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Detection and Analytics | John Wunder 
LEVEL 3 
Feel confident that you’re cranking out quality analytics to detect attacks from Atomic  
Red Team? Test that confidence and improve your defenses by doing some purple  
teaming! It allows the operator to pick one technique or chain many together when  
building the test, which allows you to start to automate sequences of behaviors for your  
testing rather than manually executing single Atomic Tests. with known threats that may target  
the organization. These purple techniques give us a place to start to use a tool we already have and  
perform techniques that are a priority to our organization. Gather threat intel—Select an adversary based on the threats to your organization 
and work with the CTI team to analyze intelligence about what the adversary has 
done. Combine what’s based on what your organization knows in addition to publicly 
available intel to document the adversary behaviors, what they go after, whether they 
do smash and grab or low and slow. ATT&CK SITE SEARCH FOR PORT 22 
Another important aspect to consider are the Group and Software examples listed  
along with a technique. ATT&CK is open and available to any person or organization for use at no charge. | 41 | 
|  Solving Problems for a Safer World