 There are many ways an adversary can establish 
command and control with various levels of stealth depending on the victim’s network structure 
and defenses. Such information may include details of the 
victim organization, infrastructure, or staff/personnel. Personas may exist on a single site or across multiple sites (ex: Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, 
Google, etc.). This behavior is 
distinct from [Disk Content Wipe](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1561/001) and [Disk 
Structure Wipe](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1561/002) because individual files are 
destroyed rather than sections of a storage disk or the disk's logical structure. (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire)(Citation: Krebs-Anna)(Citation: Krebs-
Bazaar)(Citation: Krebs-Booter) 
  Parent Technique: T1583 
  Associated Tactics: TA0042 
 
T1584.005: Botnet 
  Description: Adversaries may compromise numerous third-party systems to form a botnet that 
can be used during targeting. A botnet is a network of compromised systems that can be 
instructed to perform coordinated tasks. (Citation: Norton Botnet) Instead of purchasing/renting a 
botnet from a booter/stresser service, adversaries may build their own botnet by compromising 
numerous third-party systems. (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire) Adversaries may also conduct 
a takeover of an existing botnet, such as redirecting bots to adversary-controlled C2 
servers. CDNs allow an organization to host content from a distributed, 
load balanced array of servers. Adversaries may search CDN data to gather actionable information. CMSTP.exe can also be abused to [Bypass User Account 
Control](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1548/002) and execute arbitrary commands from a 
malicious INF through an auto-elevated COM interface. The purchase of code signing 
certificates may be done using a front organization or using information stolen from a previously 
compromised entity that allows the adversary to validate to a certificate provider as that entity. Side-loading takes advantage of the DLL search order used by the loader by positioning both 
the victim application and malicious payload(s) alongside each other. Such control can allow for 
redirection of an organization's traffic, facilitating Collection and Credential Access efforts for the 
adversary. File systems provide a structure to store and access data from physical 
storage. Resource forks have been deprecated and replaced with the 
application bundle structure. Once logged into the site, an adversary can access 
sensitive information, read email, or perform actions that the victim account has permissions to 
perform. Once adversaries gain access to a victim organization, they may mine CRM software for 
customer data. They include information about the 
key, information about its owner's identity, and the digital signature of an entity that has verified 
the certificate's contents are correct. The purchase of digital certificates may be done using a front organization or using information 
stolen from a previously compromised entity that allows the adversary to validate to a certificate 
provider as that entity. They include information about the 
key, information about its owner's identity, and the digital signature of an entity that has verified 
the certificate's contents are correct. Each end of the communication channels 
requires a private key (only in the procession of that entity) and the public key of the other entity. The public keys of each entity are exchanged before encrypted communications begin. Associated Tactics: TA0042 
 
T1491.002: External Defacement 
  Description: An adversary may deface systems external to an organization in an attempt to 
deliver messaging, intimidate, or otherwise mislead an organization or users. In later versions of Windows (10+), <code>PubPrn.vbs</code> has been updated to prevent 
proxying execution from a remote site. Encrypted password (<code>G$RADIUSCHAP</code>) from the Active Directory user-
structure <code>userParameters</code> 
2. SharePoint will often contain useful information for an adversary to learn about the 
structure and functionality of the internal network and systems. Personas may exist on a single site or across multiple sites (ex: Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, 
etc.). The persona may 
exist on a single social media site or across multiple sites (ex: Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, 
etc.). (Citation: TrendMictro Phishing)(Citation: PCMag FakeLogin) The given 
website may be a clone of a legitimate site (such as an online or corporate login portal) or may 
closely resemble a legitimate site in appearance and have a URL containing elements from the 
real site. For 
example, in AWS environments, an adversary that creates a new identity provider for an AWS 
Organization will be able to federate into all of the AWS Organization member accounts without 
creating identities for each of the member accounts. Associated Tactics: TA0002