 ATT&CK can be useful for any organization that wants to move toward a threat-informed  
defense, so we want to share ideas for how to start regardless of how sophisticated your team is. Understand ATT&CK—Familiarize yourself with the overall structure of ATT&CK: 
tactics (the adversary’s technical goals), techniques (how those goals are achieved), 
and procedures (specific implementations of techniques). Taking the above process, you can  
map both internal and external information to ATT&CK, including incident response data,  
reports from OSINT or threat intel subscriptions, real-time alerts, and your organization’s  
historic information. If our defenders have given the CTI team the requirement  
to help figure out where they should prioritize resources for defense, we can share this  
information with them as a place for them to start. For example, you can find their  
list of attacks for Regsvr32, including Squiblydoo. Of course, if you’re already doing red  
teaming, feel free to run the attacks you know yourself (on systems where you have  
permission!) and try to develop analytics for those! Bonus Level 0 Content: Really want to create your own analytics and run your own attacks  
but don’t have your own network? Test that confidence and improve your defenses by doing some purple  
teaming! They adapt and try to evade your defenses—including your analytics  
(that’s why there’s a defense evasion tactic in ATT&CK, after all). At that point, you’ll need 
to update your analytic to look for different artifacts and behaviors that won’t rely on 
the exact naming. You can reference back to Chapter 1 on prioritizing by threat actor, use some of  
the resources published by vendors to prioritize based on prevalence of the technique  
based on their monitoring, or perhaps best of all, develop analytics for the activity that  
you know about from your own incidents. | 18 | 
 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Detection and Analytics | John Wunder 
RESOURCES 
Square CAR: MITRE’s repository of analytics 
Square EQL: Endgame’s open-source repository of analytics 
Square Sigma: A tool-independent format for analytics, along with a repository of analytics in 
that format from Florian Roth and Thomas Patzke 
Square ThreatHunter Playbook: A repository of strategies to look for ATT&CK techniques in log 
data (i.e. Adversary emulators construct a scenario to test certain aspects of an adversary’s tactics, 
techniques, and procedures (TTPs). LEVEL 1 
Small teams and those mainly focused on defense can get a lot of benefit out of 
adversary emulation even if they don’t have access to a red team, so don’t worry! You troubleshoot and fix the problem, and now you’ve made a measurable  
improvement to help you have a better chance to catch an adversary using this  
procedure in the future. It allows the operator to pick one technique or chain many together when  
building the test, which allows you to start to automate sequences of behaviors for your  
testing rather than manually executing single Atomic Tests. You can use one of the pre-
built scenarios or define a more specific scenario by choosing the procedures (called  
abilities in CALDERA) that map to certain ATT&CK techniques you want to test. Mapping red team procedures to ATT&CK is similar to mapping threat  
intelligence to ATT&CK, so you might want to check out Katie’s recommendations for a  
six-step process outlined in Chapter 1. | 24 | 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Adversary Emulation and Red Teaming | Blake Strom, Tim Schulz, and Katie Nickels 
ATT&CK MATRIX SHOWING COBALT STRIKE AND OILRIG TECHNIQUE OVERLAP 
Aside from identifying overlap between Cobalt Strike and OilRig, the analysis can also  
show where there are opportunities to vary the red team’s behaviors beyond what they  
typically employ down to the procedure level. Develop tools and procedures—Now that you know what you’d like the red team to 
do, figure out how to implement the behavior. These describe the procedures, or specific ways, an adversary  
has used a technique. Katie Nickels is the ATT&CK threat intelligence lead at MITRE, where she 
focuses on sharing how ATT&CK is useful for moving toward a threat-
informed defense. Katie has worked in network defense, incident response, and 
cyber threat intelligence for nearly a decade. | 41 | 
|  Solving Problems for a Safer World