 TA0005: Defense Evasion 
  Description: The adversary is trying to avoid being detected. Defense Evasion consists of techniques that adversaries use to avoid detection throughout their 
compromise. Techniques used for defense evasion include uninstalling/disabling security 
software or obfuscating/encrypting data and scripts. Common 
approaches are to take advantage of system weaknesses, misconfigurations, and 
vulnerabilities. (Citation: Microsoft COM) DCOM is transparent middleware that extends the functionality 
of Component Object Model (COM) (Citation: Microsoft COM) beyond a local computer using 
remote procedure call (RPC) technology. Domain trusts provide a mechanism for a domain to allow access to resources 
based on the authentication procedures of another domain. This can increase the difficulty defenders have in defending against the attack 
by reducing or eliminating the effectiveness of filtering by the source address on network 
defense devices. Botnets have been used in some of the most high-profile DDoS attacks, such as the 
2012 series of incidents that targeted major US banks. Cloud environments may also support various functions and 
services that monitor and can be invoked in response to specific cloud events. Vulnerabilities can exist in software due to unsecure coding practices that can lead to 
unanticipated behavior. Adversaries can take advantage of certain vulnerabilities through 
targeted exploitation for the purpose of arbitrary code execution. For example, 
adversaries have exploited vulnerabilities in public cloud infrastructure that allowed for 
unintended authentication token creation and renewal. Vulnerabilities may exist in defensive security software 
that can be used to disable or circumvent them. (Citation: FBI-BEC) This creates the potential for multiple victims 
(i.e., compromised accounts as well as the ultimate monetary loss) in incidents involving 
financial theft. These restrictions can further enable malicious operations as well as the continued propagation 
of incidents. This activity may also impede forensic analysis and 
incident response, due to lack of sufficient data to determine what occurred. This can increase the difficulty defenders have in defending against the attack 
by reducing or eliminating the effectiveness of filtering by the source address on network 
defense devices. Activities may include the acquisition of malware, software (including 
licenses), exploits, certificates, and information relating to vulnerabilities. Adversaries may similarly abuse response features included in EDR and other defensive tools 
that enable remote access. Stopping critical services or processes can inhibit or stop 
response to an incident or aid in the adversary's overall objectives to cause damage to the 
environment. (Citation: Microsoft Azure Storage Shared Access Signature) 
 
Incidents have been observed where adversaries have created backups of cloud instances and 
transferred them to separate accounts. (Citation: Mandiant Defend 
UNC2452 White Paper) 
 
This may be used in persistent threat incidents as well as BEC (Business Email Compromise) 
incidents where an adversary can add [Additional Cloud 
Roles](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1098/003) to the accounts they wish to compromise. Parent Technique: T1573 
  Associated Tactics: TA0011 
 
T1055.004: Asynchronous Procedure Call 
  Description: Adversaries may inject malicious code into processes via the asynchronous 
procedure call (APC) queue in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly 
elevate privileges. (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire)(Citation: Krebs-Anna)(Citation: Krebs-
Bazaar)(Citation: Krebs-Booter) 
  Parent Technique: T1583 
  Associated Tactics: TA0042 
 
T1584.005: Botnet 
  Description: Adversaries may compromise numerous third-party systems to form a botnet that 
can be used during targeting. A botnet is a network of compromised systems that can be 
instructed to perform coordinated tasks. (Citation: Norton Botnet) Instead of purchasing/renting a 
botnet from a booter/stresser service, adversaries may build their own botnet by compromising 
numerous third-party systems. (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire) Adversaries may also conduct 
a takeover of an existing botnet, such as redirecting bots to adversary-controlled C2 
servers. CMSTP.exe can also be abused to [Bypass User Account 
Control](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1548/002) and execute arbitrary commands from a 
malicious INF through an auto-elevated COM interface. These credentials may then be abused to perform follow-on activities such as 
lateral movement or privilege escalation (Citation: Slack Security Risks). Cloud environments allow for 
collection and analysis of audit and application logs that provide insight into what activities a 
user does within the environment. If an adversary has sufficient permissions, they can disable or 
modify logging to avoid detection of their activities. Distributed COM (DCOM) is transparent middleware that extends the functionality of 
COM beyond a local computer using remote procedure call (RPC) technology. Alternatively, compromised systems may return no output at all in cases where 
adversaries want to send instructions to systems and do not want a response. To change the operating system in storage, the adversary will typically use the standard 
procedures available to device operators. (Citation: US-CERT-TA18-106A)(Citation: Cisco Blog 
Legacy Device Attacks)  
  Parent Technique: T1602 
  Associated Tactics: TA0009 
 
T1505.001: SQL Stored Procedures 
  Description: Adversaries may abuse SQL stored procedures to establish persistent access to 
systems. Stored procedures can be 
invoked via SQL statements to the database using the procedure name or via defined events 
(e.g. Adversaries may craft malicious stored procedures that can provide a persistence mechanism in 
SQL database servers. With CLR 
integration enabled, application developers can write stored procedures using any .NET 
framework language (e.g. Or, they may need to build extensive infrastructure if they want to test, 
communicate, and control other aspects of their activities on their own systems. Adversaries may use also third party utilities, such as 7-Zip, WinRAR, and WinZip, to perform 
similar activities. Botnets have been used in some of the most high-profile DDoS 
flooding attacks, such as the 2012 series of incidents that targeted major US banks. (Citation: Microsoft GetWindowLong function) (Citation: Microsoft SetWindowLong 
function) 
 
Although small, the EWM is large enough to store a 32-bit pointer and is often used to point to a 
windows procedure. [Exploitation for Defense Evasion](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1211)), 
unchecked file types, and external libraries. Adversaries may use this technique in conjunction 
with administrator-level [Valid Accounts](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1078) to remotely 
access a networked system over SMB,(Citation: Wikipedia Server Message Block) to interact 
with systems using remote procedure calls (RPCs),(Citation: TechNet RPC) transfer files, and 
run transferred binaries through remote Execution. Third-
party security software such as endpoint detection and response (EDR) tools may not start after 
booting Windows in safe mode. Associated Tactics: TA0042 
 
T1588.006: Vulnerabilities 
  Description: Adversaries may acquire information about vulnerabilities that can be used during 
targeting. Associated Tactics: TA0002