 d) 
Reported information security vulnerabilities are assessed and dealt with appropriately. If there are no clear procedures, there is a risk that investigation 
activities could be conducted in a reactive mode, by responding to incidents as they occur and 
overlooking what activities are needed. If unreported information security events are determined to be incidents, it becomes 
difficult to investigate the incidents and to take control in order to prevent recurrence. 5 
Plan and prepare phase 
5.1 Overview of key activities 
Effective information security incident management requires appropriate planning and preparation.For an 
efficient and effective information security event, incident and vulnerability management scheme to be put into 
operational use, an organization should complete a number of preparatory activities after the necessary 
planning. In some organizations, the scheme may be referred to as an information security incident response 
plan (see Clause 5.4). 4) A definition of the scope of the ISIRT activities. b) 
To indicate senior management commitment to the need for proper preparation and response to 
information security incidents, i.e. d) 
To ensure planned, systematic and calm responses to information security incidents, thus minimizing the 
adverse impacts of incidents. iii) Detecting and reporting on information security vulnerabilities. ix) Dealing with information security vulnerabilities. ii) 
Identifying the lessons learnt from information security incidents and vulnerabilities. 5.4.4 Procedures 
Before being able to commence operation of the information security incident management scheme, it is 
important that an organization has documented and checked that the procedures are available. Each 
procedure should indicate those groups or individuals responsible for its use and management, as appropriate 
from the PoC and/or the ISIRT. Further, there should be documented procedures covering not just 
PoC and ISIRT activities, but those involved in information security forensic analysis and crisis activities – if 
not covered elsewhere, e.g. Thus, an operating procedure could be related to a 
particular type of incident or product (for example firewalls, databases, operating systems, applications) or to a 
specific product. Each operating procedure should clearly identify the steps to be undertaken and by whom. d) 
incident information held in, and the outputs from the information security event/incident/vulnerability 
database, 
e) 
controls on confidentiality of sources as relevant, 
f) 
scheme service level agreements, 
g) 
notification of outcomes – under what circumstances sources are advised, 
h) 
any constraints imposed by non-disclosure agreements, 
i) 
the authority of the information security incident management organization and its reporting line, and 
j) 
who receives reports from the information security incident management scheme, and how the reports 
are distributed. In some cases, it may be desirable for the organization to include awareness detail specifically about 
information security incident management in other training programs (for example, personnel orientation 
programs or general corporate security awareness programs). This awareness approach may provide 
valuable context relevant to particular groups of people, and improves training program effectiveness and 
efficiency. Before the information security incident management scheme becomes operational, the organization should 
ensure that all relevant personnel are familiar with the procedures involved in the detection and reporting of 
information security events, and selected personnel are very knowledgeable about the subsequent activities. This should be followed up by regular awareness briefings and training courses. The training should be 
supported by specific exercises and testing for PoC and ISIRT members, and information security personnel 
and specific administrators. Particular attention should be paid to the creation 
of the simulated scenarios, which should be based on real new information security threats. These phases and their 
associated activities were introduced in Clause 4.5. The 
organization should ensure that the appropriate personnel deal with reported information security 
vulnerabilities in a similar manner to how non-information security faults are handled, possibly with 
assessment and resolution using technical personnel (who may or may not be members of the ISIRT). Figure 3 shows all of the operational phases and related activities. In 
particular, when several information security incidents are being dealt with the same time, priorities have to be 
set to order the responses to be given to information security incidents. Another area of response activity may involve monitoring the IT system, service and/or network. Such activities may include, 
but are not limited to, the activation of: 
a) 
fire suppression facilities and evacuation procedures, 
b) 
flood prevention facilities and evacuation procedures, 
c) 
bomb handling and related evacuation procedures, 
d) 
specialist information system fraud investigators, and 
e) 
specialist technical attack investigators. The method(s) to be followed should be documented in the ISIRT procedures. This could be following the assessment activities described above in Clauses 7.2 
and 7.3, or during those activities if some major issue becomes evident early. b) 
Activity to identify the lessons learnt from information security incidents and vulnerabilities. A complete vulnerability assessment is used to highlight the existence of the 
vulnerabilities exploited during the information security incident on other information systems, services and/or 
networks and to ensure that no new vulnerabilities are introduced. c) 
Were any procedures or tools identified that would have been of assistance in the response process? e) 
Was the communication of the incident to all relevant parties effective throughout the detection, reporting 
and response process? A.13.2.1 Responsibilities and procedures 
Control: Management responsibilities and procedures 
should be established to ensure a quick, effective, and 
orderly response to information security incidents. 9 (Lessons learnt) and Annex B 
(Example of Information Security 
Incidents and Their Causes) and 
Annex C (Example Approaches to the 
Categorization and Classification of 
Information Security Events and 
Incidents) – the content could help to 
learn from information security 
incidents. Such 
incidents are not attacks in the strict sense of the word, but are often reported as incidents and should be 
managed by an ISIRT. Other 
Incidents 
Not categorized in any of the 
above incident category.  
Legal Issues related to Policies and Procedures are dealt with.  
Prosecutions, or Internal Disciplinary Procedures, can be Successful.  Breach Notification in Incident Handling (2008) 
[32] 
SANS Institute, Baselines and Incident Handling (2008) 
[33] 
SANS Institute, Documentation is to Incident Response as an Air Tank is to Scuba Diving (2007) 
[34] 
SANS Institute, Creating and Managing an Incident Response Team for a Large Company (2007) 
[35] 
SANS Institute, An Incident Handling Process for Small and Medium Businesses (2007) 
[36] 
SANS Institute, Incident Management 101 Preparation & Initial Response (aka Identification) (2005) 
[37] 
SANS Institute, Building an Incident Response Program To Suit Your Business (2003) 
[38] 
ISACA, COBIT 4.1 (Section DS5.11), www.isaca. Tel: +44 (0)20 8996 7070
Email: copyright@bsigroup.com