 ATT&CK Group Model .................................................................................................. 14 
Table 4. Adversary emulation focuses on the ability of an organization to verify detection 
and/or mitigation of the adversarial activity at all applicable points in their lifecycle. Defensive Gap Assessment – A defensive gap assessment allows an organization to determine 
what parts of its enterprise lack defenses and/or visibility. Cyber Threat Intelligence Enrichment – Cyber threat intelligence covers knowledge of cyber 
threats and threat actor groups that impact cybersecurity. ATT&CK is useful for understanding and documenting adversary group profiles from a 
behavioral perspective that is agnostic of the tools the group may use. Operationalizing ATT&CK for an organization also encompasses determining what it means for 
you to have “ATT&CK coverage”. It is independent of 
technology and models an adversary’s behavior as they attempt to gain access to an organization 
or entity through the technology they leverage, spanning multiple domains. Contributor 
Tag 
List of non-MITRE contributors (individual and/or 
organization) from first to most recent that 
contributed information on, about, or supporting the 
development of a (sub-)technique. There could be 
many ways of detecting a (sub-)technique but 
ATT&CK and MITRE do not endorse any particular 
vendor solution. Detection recommendations should 
therefore remain vendor agnostic, recommending 
the general method and class of tools rather than a 
specific tool. Mitigation 
fields are populated on a (sub-)technique page when 
a mitigation object is associated to a 
(sub-)technique.. The relationship describes the 
details of how a specific mitigation can be applied to 
the (sub-)technique. Mitigation recommendations 
remain vendor agnostic, recommending the general 
method or capability class rather than a specific tool. Mitigation may not always be possible for a given 
(sub-)technique and is documented as such if no 
relationships to a given (sub-)technique are present. Groups are defined as 
named intrusion sets, threat groups, actor groups, or campaigns that typically represent targeted, 
persistent threat activity. ATT&CK Group Model 
Data Item 
Type 
Description 
Name* 
Field 
The name of the adversary group. It may contain dates of activity, suspected 
attribution details, targeted industries, and notable 
events that are attributed to the group’s activities. Associated Group 
Descriptions 
Field 
Section that can be used to describe the associated 
group names with references to the report used to tie 
the associated group to the primary group name. Contributor 
Tag 
List of non-MITRE contributors (individual and/or 
organization) from first to most recent that 
contributed information on, about, or supporting the 
development of a software profile. This information is populated 
from the associated group entry. The information may be used in different ways 
depending on where the information comes from and the vantage the contributing organization 
or individual has. Threat intelligence analysts typically track incidents, threat groups, and how their TTPs evolve 
over time. The high-level concepts like 
Control, Execute, and Maintain are further broken down into more descriptive categories where 
individual actions on a system can be defined and categorized. These sub-techniques tend to 
describe how individual components of the platform are abused by adversaries. ATT&CK remains strongly tied to threat intelligence sources on 
persistent threat groups. There are also fewer persistent threat incidents reported against Linux and 
Mac systems than there are against Windows, causing available threat data to be substantially 
less available. o Are the differences distinguishing characteristics of that group? Some groups in ATT&CK have multiple names associated with related sets of activity due to 
various organizations tracking the same (or similar) set(s) of activities by different names. There could be several nuances that lead an analyst and organization to categorize 
adversary activity separately, such as differences in visibility into a group’s suspected activity. • There are several variations of this technique and the core behavior is distinct enough 
from other related methods of defense evasion and privilege escalation to warrant an 
individual entry. Adoption of ATT&CK is widespread across multiple disciplines, including intrusion detection, 
threat hunting, security engineering, threat intelligence, red teaming, and risk management. [19] F. Roth, "The Newcomer's Guide to Cyber Threat Actor Naming," 25 March 2018. Available: https://medium.com/@cyb3rops/the-newcomers-guide-to-cyber-
threat-actor-naming-7428e18ee263. [Accessed 16 March 2020].