 For each use case, the authors laid out advice on how an organization could get started  
with ATT&CK based on available resources and overall maturity. You might choose a group from those we’ve mapped on our website based on what  
organizations they’ve previously targeted. SEARCH FOR “PHARMACEUTICAL” 
DESCRIPTION OF APT19 GROUP 
From there, you can bring up that group’s page to look at the techniques they’ve used  
(based solely on open source reporting we’ve mapped) so you can learn more about  
them. | 3 | 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Threat Intelligence | Katie Nickels 
So how do we make this information actionable, which is the whole point of threat  
intelligence? Let’s share it with our defenders, since this is a group who has targeted  
our sector and we want to defend against them. Identifying some behaviors they’ve used helps   
you inform your defenders about how they can try to detect that group. | 5 | 
 
  
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Threat Intelligence | Katie Nickels 
6. To start,  
look at the technique description from ATT&CK and the threat intel reports linked in the  
examples. For example, you can find their  
list of attacks for Regsvr32, including Squiblydoo. Of course, if you’re already doing red  
teaming, feel free to run the attacks you know yourself (on systems where you have  
permission!) and try to develop analytics for those! Bonus Level 0 Content: Really want to create your own analytics and run your own attacks  
but don’t have your own network? ANALYTIC DEVELOPMENT WORKFLOW 
| 15 | 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Detection and Analytics | John Wunder 
LEVEL 3 
Feel confident that you’re cranking out quality analytics to detect attacks from Atomic  
Red Team? At that point, you’ll need 
to update your analytic to look for different artifacts and behaviors that won’t rely on 
the exact naming. You can reference back to Chapter 1 on prioritizing by threat actor, use some of  
the resources published by vendors to prioritize based on prevalence of the technique  
based on their monitoring, or perhaps best of all, develop analytics for the activity that  
you know about from your own incidents. | 20 | 
 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Adversary Emulation and Red Teaming | Blake Strom, Tim Schulz, and Katie Nickels 
Atomic Red Team can be used to test individual techniques and procedures to verify that 
behavioral analytics and monitoring capabilities are working as expected. | 21 | 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Adversary Emulation and Red Teaming | Blake Strom, Tim Schulz, and Katie Nickels 
These singular tests allow for a laser focus on individual ATT&CK techniques, which 
makes building ATT&CK-based defensive coverage easier to approach because you can 
start with a single test for a single technique and expand from there. It allows the operator to pick one technique or chain many together when  
building the test, which allows you to start to automate sequences of behaviors for your  
testing rather than manually executing single Atomic Tests. Armed with your individual commands, scripts, and tools mapped to  
ATT&CK, you can now plan your engagement. with known threats that may target  
the organization. These purple techniques give us a place to start to use a tool we already have and  
perform techniques that are a priority to our organization. Gather threat intel—Select an adversary based on the threats to your organization 
and work with the CTI team to analyze intelligence about what the adversary has 
done. Combine what’s based on what your organization knows in addition to publicly 
available intel to document the adversary behaviors, what they go after, whether they 
do smash and grab or low and slow. Consider: 
Square How did the threat group use this technique? Square Did the group vary which technique was used based on the environment context? Katie Nickels is the ATT&CK threat intelligence lead at MITRE, where she 
focuses on sharing how ATT&CK is useful for moving toward a threat-
informed defense. She is also a SANS instructor for FOR578: Cyber Threat 
Intelligence. ATT&CK is open and available to any person or organization for use at no charge. | 41 | 
|  Solving Problems for a Safer World