 Such information may include details of the 
victim organization, infrastructure, or staff/personnel. Accounts could also be disabled by Group Policy. There are examples of 
antivirus software being targeted by persistent threat groups to avoid detection. Group policy objects (GPOs) are containers for group policy settings made up of files stored 
within a predictable network path `\<DOMAIN>\SYSVOL\<DOMAIN>\Policies\`. (Citation: WithSecure Lazarus-NoPineapple Threat Intel 
Report 2023)(Citation: Cadet Blizzard emerges as novel threat actor) In cloud environments, 
adversaries may leverage utilities such as the Azure VM Agent’s `CollectGuestLogs.exe` to 
collect security logs from cloud hosted infrastructure. Activities may include the acquisition of malware, software (including 
licenses), exploits, certificates, and information relating to vulnerabilities. In spearphishing, a specific individual, company, or industry will be 
targeted by the adversary. In spearphishing, a specific individual, company, or industry will be 
targeted by the adversary. (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire)(Citation: Krebs-Anna)(Citation: Krebs-
Bazaar)(Citation: Krebs-Booter) 
  Parent Technique: T1583 
  Associated Tactics: TA0042 
 
T1584.005: Botnet 
  Description: Adversaries may compromise numerous third-party systems to form a botnet that 
can be used during targeting. A botnet is a network of compromised systems that can be 
instructed to perform coordinated tasks. (Citation: Norton Botnet) Instead of purchasing/renting a 
botnet from a booter/stresser service, adversaries may build their own botnet by compromising 
numerous third-party systems. (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire) Adversaries may also conduct 
a takeover of an existing botnet, such as redirecting bots to adversary-controlled C2 
servers. CDNs allow an organization to host content from a distributed, 
load balanced array of servers. CMSTP.exe can also be abused to [Bypass User Account 
Control](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1548/002) and execute arbitrary commands from a 
malicious INF through an auto-elevated COM interface. These credentials may then be abused to perform follow-on activities such as 
lateral movement or privilege escalation (Citation: Slack Security Risks). Such control can allow for 
redirection of an organization's traffic, facilitating Collection and Credential Access efforts for the 
adversary. Cloud environments allow for 
collection and analysis of audit and application logs that provide insight into what activities a 
user does within the environment. If an adversary has sufficient permissions, they can disable or 
modify logging to avoid detection of their activities. Commands such as <code>net group /domain</code> of the 
[Net](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0039) utility,  <code>dscacheutil -q group</code> on 
macOS, and <code>ldapsearch</code> on Linux can list domain-level groups. For example, in AWS environments, adversaries may leverage the 
Route53 domain service to register a domain and create hosted zones pointing to resources of 
the threat actor’s choosing. Parent Technique: T1558 
  Associated Tactics: TA0006 
 
T1552.006: Group Policy Preferences 
  Description: Adversaries may attempt to find unsecured credentials in Group Policy 
Preferences (GPP). This may also coincide with [Account Access 
Removal](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1531) if the actor first deletes an account before 
re-creating one with the same name. Threat actors can use 
online resources and lookup tools to harvest information from these services. Or, they may need to build extensive infrastructure if they want to test, 
communicate, and control other aspects of their activities on their own systems. All forms of spearphishing are electronically delivered social engineering targeted at a specific 
individual, company, or industry. All forms of spearphishing are electronically delivered social engineering targeted at a specific 
individual, company, or industry. Adversaries may use also third party utilities, such as 7-Zip, WinRAR, and WinZip, to perform 
similar activities. Once adversaries gain access to a victim organization, they may mine CRM software for 
customer data. Threat actors 
can use online resources and lookup tools to harvest information about certificates. Associated Tactics: TA0042 
 
T1491.002: External Defacement 
  Description: An adversary may deface systems external to an organization in an attempt to 
deliver messaging, intimidate, or otherwise mislead an organization or users. Associated Tactics: TA0005 
 
T1484.001: Group Policy Modification 
  Description: Adversaries may modify Group Policy Objects (GPOs) to subvert the intended 
discretionary access controls for a domain, usually with the intention of escalating privileges on 
the domain. (Citation: AWS Storage 
Lifecycles)(Citation: GCP Storage Lifecycles)(Citation: Azure Storage Lifecycles) If a threat 
actor has sufficient permissions to modify these policies, they may be able to delete all objects 
at once. Most Linux and Linux-based platforms provide a standard set of permission groups (user, 
group, and other) and a standard set of permissions (read, write, and execute) that are applied 
to each group. (Citation: Twilio SMS Pumping) SMS pumping 
is a type of telecommunications fraud whereby a threat actor first obtains a set of phone 
numbers from a telecommunications provider, then leverages a victim’s messaging 
infrastructure to send large amounts of SMS messages to numbers in that set. By generating 
SMS traffic to their phone number set, a threat actor may earn payments from the 
telecommunications provider. All forms of spearphishing are electronically 
delivered social engineering targeted at a specific individual, company, or industry. All forms of spearphishing are electronically delivered social engineering targeted at a specific 
individual, company, or industry. Associated Tactics: TA0004, TA0005 
 
T1597.001: Threat Intel Vendors 
  Description: Adversaries may search private data from threat intelligence vendors for 
information that can be used during targeting. Threat intelligence vendors may offer paid feeds 
or portals that offer more data than what is publicly reported. (Citation: Okta Cross-Tenant Impersonation 2023) This may enable the threat actor to 
gain broad access into a variety of cloud-based services that leverage the identity tenant. For 
example, in AWS environments, an adversary that creates a new identity provider for an AWS 
Organization will be able to federate into all of the AWS Organization member accounts without 
creating identities for each of the member accounts. Associated Tactics: TA0002