 If there are no clear procedures, there is a risk that investigation 
activities could be conducted in a reactive mode, by responding to incidents as they occur and 
overlooking what activities are needed. g) 
Improving updates to information security risk assessment and management results 
The use of a structured approach to information security incident management will facilitate the 
- better collection of data for assisting in the identification and determination of the characteristics of the 
various threat types and associated vulnerabilities, and 
- provision of data on frequencies of occurrence of the identified threat types. The data collected to identify the occurrence frequency of the 
various threat types will greatly aid the quality of the threat assessment. Furthermore, such 
awareness helps to reduce a mistake or panic/confusion by an individual in the event of an information 
security incident. This applies to policies and other documents applicable both for 
organization-wide and for individual systems, services and networks. Particular attention 
should be given to the creation of tests that focus on the evolving vulnerability, threat and risk scenarios 
(see Clause 5.8). The scheme should include standards that support information sharing, both within the 
organization and outside (if required by the organization). 4) A definition of the scope of the ISIRT activities. Normally, the scope of an organization's ISIRT covers 
all of the organization's information systems, services and networks. xii) The terms of reference and responsibilities of the ISIRT as a whole, and of individual members. Further, there should be documented procedures covering not just 
PoC and ISIRT activities, but those involved in information security forensic analysis and crisis activities – if 
not covered elsewhere, e.g. on the organization's intranet. These procedures should specify who in the organization deals with media inquiries, and 
how that part of the organization interacts with the ISIRT. Each group of people involved directly with the 
management of incidents may require different levels of training, depending on the type, frequency and 
criticality of their interaction with the information security incident management scheme. In some cases, it may be desirable for the organization to include awareness detail specifically about 
information security incident management in other training programs (for example, personnel orientation 
programs or general corporate security awareness programs). This awareness approach may provide 
valuable context relevant to particular groups of people, and improves training program effectiveness and 
efficiency. Before the information security incident management scheme becomes operational, the organization should 
ensure that all relevant personnel are familiar with the procedures involved in the detection and reporting of 
information security events, and selected personnel are very knowledgeable about the subsequent activities. This should be followed up by regular awareness briefings and training courses. These phases and their 
associated activities were introduced in Clause 4.5. The 
organization should ensure that the appropriate personnel deal with reported information security 
vulnerabilities in a similar manner to how non-information security faults are handled, possibly with 
assessment and resolution using technical personnel (who may or may not be members of the ISIRT). Figure 3 shows all of the operational phases and related activities. Each group may need special information that should come through the appropriate channels of the 
organization. These incidents need to be escalated to activate the 
business continuity plan if in place by reporting to either senior management, another group within the 
organization or persons or groups outside of the organization. This could be following the assessment activities described above in Clauses 7.2 
and 7.3, or during those activities if some major issue becomes evident early. The organization should ensure that these are actioned. A botnet is a group of compromised (‘zombie’) computers 
on networks that are centrally controlled by the author of 
the botnet who is known as botnet controller or herder. An organization could not bear this level of business loss. 1 Minor distress (concern) to an individual (anger, frustration, disappointment) but no breach of legal or 
regulatory requirement occurs 
2 Distress (concern) to an individual (anger, frustration, disappointment) but no breach of legal or regulatory 
requirement occurs 
3 A breach in a legal, regulatory or ethical requirement or publicized intention on the protection of information, 
leading to minor embarrassment to an individual 
4 A breach in a legal, regulatory or ethical requirement or publicized intention on the protection of information,  
leading to significant embarrassment to an individual or minor embarrassment to a group of individuals 
5 A breach in a legal, regulatory or ethical requirement or publicized intention on the protection of information, 
leading to serious embarrassment to an individual 
6 A breach in a legal, 8.1 Actual 
(incident has occurred) 
 
8.2 Suspected 
(incident thought to have occurred but not 
confirmed) 
 
(One of) 
8.3 Natural disaster 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Earthquake 
 
Volcano 
 
Flood 
 
Violent wind 
 
Lightning 
 
Tsunami 
 
Collapse 
 
Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8.4 Social unrest 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Bedin 
    Terrorist assault 
    War 
    Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8. 10 Technical attack 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Network scanning 
        Exploitation of vulnerability 
        Exploitation of backdoor 
 
Login attempts, Interference 
        Denial of Service (DoS) 
        Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8.11 Breach of rule 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Unauthorized use of resources 
        Breach of copyright 
        Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8. 12 Compromise of functions 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Abuse of rights 
        Forging of rights, Denial of actions 
        Mis-operations 
 
Breach of personnel availability 
        Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8.13 Compromise of information 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Interception 
        Spying, Eavesdropping 
        Disclosure 
 
Masquerade, (IF INCIDENT CAUSED BY PEOPLE) PERSON(S)/PERPETRATOR(S) INVOLVED 
(One of) 
Person 
 
Legally Established Organization/Institution
 
 
Organized Group 
 
Accident
 
 
 
 
No Perpetrator
e.g. As information security incidents need to be typically attributed to an individual, information 
of a personal nature may therefore need to be recorded and managed accordingly. Tel: +44 (0)20 8996 7070
Email: copyright@bsigroup.com