 Preventive activities 
based on the results of risk assessments can lower the number of incidents, but not all incidents can be 
prevented. Prioritizing the handling of individual incidents is a critical decision point in the incident response 
process. A computer security incident is a violation or imminent threat of violation1 of computer security policies, 
acceptable use policies, or standard security practices. Each organization needs a plan that meets its unique requirements, which relates to the 
organization’s mission, size, structure, and functions.  Organization’s ISP. Software vendors may also provide information on known threats (e.g., new attacks) to help 
organizations understand the current threat environment. Groups such as the Forum of Incident Response and Security Teams (FIRST)11, the 
Government Forum of Incident Response and Security Teams (GFIRST)12, and the Anti-Phishing 
Working Group (APWG)13 are not incident response teams, but they promote information sharing 
among incident response teams. The organization has multiple incident response teams, each 
responsible for a particular logical or physical segment of the organization. An incident response team provides advice to other teams without having 
authority over those teams—for example, a departmentwide team may assist individual agencies’ 
teams. An existing group such as the IT help desk can act as a first POC for 
incident reporting. Also, 
MSSPs may be able to correlate events among customers so that they can identify new threats more 
quickly than any individual customer could. Managers are 
ultimately responsible for ensuring that incident response activities are performed properly. Only one group within the organization 
should distribute computer security advisories to avoid duplicated effort and conflicting information. The jump kit should be ready to go at all times. Jump kits contain 
many of the same items listed in the bulleted lists above. For example, each jump kit typically includes a 
laptop, loaded with appropriate software (e.g., packet sniffers, digital forensics). Other important 
materials include backup devices, blank media, and basic networking equipment and cables. In addition to an investigative laptop, each incident handler should also 
have a standard laptop, smart phone, or other computing device for writing reports, reading email, and 
performing other duties unrelated to the hands-on incident analysis. Examples of precursors are: 
 Web server log entries that show the usage of a vulnerability scanner 
 An announcement of a new exploit that targets a vulnerability of the organization’s mail server 
 A threat from a group stating that the group will attack the organization. For example, the 
organization might be contacted by a party claiming a system at the organization is attacking its 
systems. The initial analysis should provide enough information for the team to prioritize subsequent activities, 
such as containment of the incident and deeper analysis of the effects of the incident. The IETF Extended Incident 
Handling (inch) Working Group (http://www.cert.org/ietf/inch/inch.html) created an RFC that expands on TERENA’s 
work—RFC 5070, Incident Object Description Exchange Format (http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc5070.txt). A detailed log should be kept for all evidence, including the following: 
 Identifying information (e.g., the location, serial number, model number, hostname, media access 
control (MAC) addresses, and IP addresses of a computer) 
 Name, title, and phone number of each individual who collected or handled the evidence during the 
investigation 
 Time and date (including time zone) of each occurrence of evidence handling 
 Locations where the evidence was stored. The following items describe the most commonly performed activities for attacking host identification: 
 Validating the Attacking Host’s IP Address. Having one or more moderators who are skilled in group 
facilitation can yield a high payoff. If incident data is collected and stored properly, it 
should provide several measures of the success (or at least the activities) of the incident response team. Organizations should 
decide what incident data to collect based on reporting requirements and on the expected return on 
investment from the data (e.g., identifying a new threat and mitigating the related vulnerabilities before 
they can be exploited.) Note 
that the actual steps performed may vary based on the type of incident and the nature of individual 
incidents. Organizations should ensure that they effectively coordinate 
portions of their incident response activities with appropriate partners. The most important aspect of 
incident response coordination is information sharing, where different organizations share threat, attack, 
and vulnerability information with each other so that each organization’s knowledge benefits the other. Collaboration with the trusted partner can enable an 
organization to respond to the incident more quickly and efficiently than an organization operating in 
isolation. Ad hoc information sharing mechanisms normally rely on an 
individual employee’s connections with employees in incident response teams of partner organizations. How would the organization attempt to prevent the worm from entering the organization before 
antivirus signatures were released? Incident: A violation or imminent threat of violation of computer security policies, acceptable use 
policies, or standard security practices. Threat: The potential source of an adverse event. 1.1) 
 Added a mention of exercises (Section 3.1.1) 
 Revised the attack vectors (formerly incident categories) (Section 3.2.1) 
COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
70 
 Added SIEMs, network flows as common sources of precursors and indicators (Section 3.2.3) 
 Expanded discussion of eradication and recovery (Section 3.3.4) 
 Added a section on coordination and information sharing (Section 4) 
 Added a table of data exchange specifications applicable to incident handling (Appendix E)