 ATT&CK can be used as a tool to create red team plans and organize operations to avoid certain 
defensive measures that may be in place within a network. The 
identified gaps are useful as a way to prioritize investments for improvement of a security 
program. Similar security products can also be compared against a common adversary behavior 
model to determine coverage prior to purchasing. Cyber Threat Intelligence Enrichment – Cyber threat intelligence covers knowledge of cyber 
threats and threat actor groups that impact cybersecurity. When it comes to 
information security, the threats we face, new technologies, and the adaptability of goal-based 
adversaries, we cannot consider filling out a checklist as “done”. To date MITRE has defined three technology 
domains – Enterprise (representing traditional enterprise networks and cloud technologies), 
Mobile (for mobile communication devices), and ICS (for industrial control systems). This tactic is often used in conjunction with initial access as the means of 
executing code once access is obtained, and lateral movement to expand access to remote 
systems on a network. There should be 
enough information and references to point toward 
useful defensive methodologies. There could be 
many ways of detecting a (sub-)technique but 
ATT&CK and MITRE do not endorse any particular 
vendor solution. Detection recommendations should 
therefore remain vendor agnostic, recommending 
the general method and class of tools rather than a 
specific tool. This section is intended to 
inform those responsible for mitigating against 
adversaries (such as network defenders or 
policymakers) to allow them to take an action such 
as changing a policy or deploying a tool. Mitigation 
fields are populated on a (sub-)technique page when 
a mitigation object is associated to a 
(sub-)technique.. The relationship describes the 
details of how a specific mitigation can be applied to 
the (sub-)technique. Mitigation recommendations 
remain vendor agnostic, recommending the general 
method or capability class rather than a specific tool. Mitigation may not always be possible for a given 
(sub-)technique and is documented as such if no 
relationships to a given (sub-)technique are present. Each sub-technique will 
only have a relationship to a single parent technique and no other to avoid complicated and 
difficult to maintain relationships across the model. This is 
especially the case with techniques that apply to network communications in the Command and 
Control tactic since network use is often operating system and platform agnostic. Groups are defined as 
named intrusion sets, threat groups, actor groups, or campaigns that typically represent targeted, 
persistent threat activity. 3.7 Mitigations 
Mitigations in ATT&CK represent security concepts and classes of technologies that can be used 
to prevent a technique or sub-technique from being successfully executed. There are 41 
mitigations in ATT&CK for Enterprise as of March 2020 and include mitigations such as 
Application Isolation and Sandboxing, Data Backup, Execution Prevention, and Network 
Segmentation. By contrast, many security models describe desired 
 
21 
©2020 The MITRE Corporation. It conveys the relationships and dependencies between 
adversarial actions and information in a way that’s agnostic of any particular defensive tool or 
method of collecting data. Threat intelligence analysts typically track incidents, threat groups, and how their TTPs evolve 
over time. The high-level concepts like 
Control, Execute, and Maintain are further broken down into more descriptive categories where 
individual actions on a system can be defined and categorized. Goals such as initial access, discovery, 
and credential access are commonly used to gain and expand access within an environment with 
an ultimate objective of stealing information through collection and exfiltration. One example of the former is 
Credential Dumping [10] for Credential Access where dumping credentials is one method of 
gaining access to new credentials—and credentials can be dumped in several different ways. Distribution unlimited 19-01075-28. 
describes a general platform agnostic behavior, such as much of the Command and Control 
tactic. ATT&CK remains strongly tied to threat intelligence sources on 
persistent threat groups. There are also fewer persistent threat incidents reported against Linux and 
Mac systems than there are against Windows, causing available threat data to be substantially 
less available. o Does the new behavior have a different detection method or set of methods than 
the existing technique? § Are there similar data sources or methods for creating analytics that are 
similar or different than existing techniques? o Does the new behavior have a different mitigation method or set of methods than 
the existing technique? § Is the implementation or deployment methods of the mitigation 
fundamentally different than existing techniques that can be inhibited by a 
similar mitigation? Common sources include security vendor blogs, but other 
sources such as personal blogs or Twitter may be used provided the information is deemed to be 
reliable. In the same example, if Command and Control traffic is over 
HTTP, unless explicitly stated or known, an analyst should not assume the traffic is over port 80 
because adversaries may use non-standard ports, as in the example. • Other related methods use different functionality provided by Windows to load and 
execute code, such as application shims. SQLi is a method of injecting code through an improperly secured web interface that is 
interpreted and executed by a database process. The resulting code execution can be used for a 
number of purposes, including adding or modifying information, gaining access to a system, 
causing the server to download and execute other code which may result in persistence, 
credential access, privilege escalation, collection, and exfiltration. • There are many methods on how SQLi may reach a database through various malformed 
data inputs and parameters. • Adversaries have been known to use SQLi as a means of gaining access to externally 
available web servers. An example is for 
initial access in a network compromise by compromising an externally facing application. • SQLi is a variation of an exploitation technique against a specific software technology 
and is an appropriate abstraction within how an adversary performs initial compromise. Building automation control 
systems could be one example. Adoption of ATT&CK is widespread across multiple disciplines, including intrusion detection, 
threat hunting, security engineering, threat intelligence, red teaming, and risk management. [Accessed 16 March 2020].