 | 3 | 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Threat Intelligence | Katie Nickels 
So how do we make this information actionable, which is the whole point of threat  
intelligence? For the SOCKS5 connection example, establishing 
a connection to later communicate would fall under the Command and Control tactic. | 5 | 
 
  
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Threat Intelligence | Katie Nickels 
6. You might already have this as part of your IT or security 
operations, or it might be something new you need to build. Bonus Level 0 Content: Need access to a good enterprise dataset for testing? To start,  
look at the technique description from ATT&CK and the threat intel reports linked in the  
examples. Rather than writing one  
analytic to cover all of them, focus in on just one aspect to avoid spinning your wheels. An easy way to do that is to use Atomic  
Red Team, an open source project led by Red Canary that provides red team content  
aligned to ATT&CK that can be used to test analytics. For example, you can find their  
list of attacks for Regsvr32, including Squiblydoo. Of course, if you’re already doing red  
teaming, feel free to run the attacks you know yourself (on systems where you have  
permission!) and try to develop analytics for those! Bonus Level 0 Content: Really want to create your own analytics and run your own attacks  
but don’t have your own network? Test that confidence and improve your defenses by doing some purple  
teaming! You’ll again give this to your red team, and they’ll execute an evasion that, for example, 
adds an additional access so that your GrantedAccess bitmask no longer detects it. Let’s  
explore how security teams can use ATT&CK for adversary emulation to help improve their  
organizations. LEVEL 1 
Small teams and those mainly focused on defense can get a lot of benefit out of 
adversary emulation even if they don’t have access to a red team, so don’t worry! It allows the operator to pick one technique or chain many together when  
building the test, which allows you to start to automate sequences of behaviors for your  
testing rather than manually executing single Atomic Tests. Some red teams have their tried and true toolkits and methods of operation. There is a much higher level of impact when visibility and control gaps are exposed by  
security testing when you can show a high likelihood that they have been leveraged by a  
known adversary. Consider: 
Square How did the threat group use this technique? | 29 | 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Assessments and Engineering | Andy Applebaum 
LEVEL 1 
If you’re working with a small team that doesn’t have access to lots of resources and 
you’re thinking of doing a full assessment, don’t. | 32 | 
 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Assessments and Engineering | Andy Applebaum 
LEVEL 2 
Once you’re familiar with this process—and have access to a bit more resources—you’ll 
ideally want to expand your analysis to span a reasonably large subset of the ATT&CK 
Matrix. As an example, you might not be able to install Sysmon on each  
of your endpoints, but your existing software might be able to forward relevant logs that  
you might not otherwise have access to. Make sure you have some visibility in cases where a mitigation  
or control may be bypassed so those events are less likely to be missed. | 38 | 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Assessments and Engineering | Andy Applebaum 
VISUALIZATION OF ATT&CK USE CASES 
| 39 | 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ABOUT THE AUTHORS  
Andy Applebaum is a principal cybersecurity engineer at MITRE where he 
works on applied and theoretical security research problems, primarily in 
the realms of cyber defense, security automation, and automated adversary 
emulation. Katie Nickels is the ATT&CK threat intelligence lead at MITRE, where she 
focuses on sharing how ATT&CK is useful for moving toward a threat-
informed defense. She is also a SANS instructor for FOR578: Cyber Threat 
Intelligence. Adam has presented and published in a number of venues including 
FIRST CTI, USENIX Security, and ACM Transactions on Information and System Security. He spends 
most of his days promoting red and blue team collaboration to help sponsors 
improve their security. He advocates for security 
through verification at all points at which an adversary could be detected or stopped 
because defenders should not wait for a real intrusion to see if their methods work. | 41 | 
|  Solving Problems for a Safer World