 Therefore, it is essential for any organization serious about information 
security to have a structured and planned approach to: 
 
detect, report and assess information security incidents; 
 
respond to information security incidents, including the activation of appropriate controls for the prevention 
and reduction of, and recovery from, impacts (for example in the support of crisis management areas); 
 
report information security vulnerabilities that have not yet been exploited to cause information security 
events and possibly information security incidents, and assess and deal with them appropriately; 
 
learn from information security incidents and vulnerabilities, institute preventive controls, and make 
improvements to the overall approach to information security incident management. not all 
information security events are classified as information security incidents. From a business perspective, the prime objective is to avoid or contain the impact of 
information security incidents to reduce the direct and indirect costs caused by the incidents. c) 
Strengthening the information security incident prevention focus 
Using a structured approach to information security incident management helps to create a better focus 
on incident prevention within an organization, including identification methods of new threats and 
vulnerabilities. Analysis of incident related data would enable the identification of patterns and trends, 
thereby facilitating a more accurate focus on incident prevention and thus identification of appropriate 
actions to prevent incidents occurring. If there are no clear procedures, there is a risk that investigation 
activities could be conducted in a reactive mode, by responding to incidents as they occur and 
overlooking what activities are needed. g) 
Improving updates to information security risk assessment and management results 
The use of a structured approach to information security incident management will facilitate the 
- better collection of data for assisting in the identification and determination of the characteristics of the 
various threat types and associated vulnerabilities, and 
- provision of data on frequencies of occurrence of the identified threat types. The data collected to identify the occurrence frequency of the 
various threat types will greatly aid the quality of the threat assessment. Such mechanisms could include the 
following: 
1) Internal information security audit mechanisms to assess the security level and track vulnerable 
systems, 
2) Vulnerability management (including security updates and security patching of vulnerable systems). Particular attention 
should be given to the creation of tests that focus on the evolving vulnerability, threat and risk scenarios 
(see Clause 5.8). The information security incident management 
scheme comes into effect whenever an information security event is detected, or an information security 
vulnerability is reported. Each organization should use the scheme as a guide for: 
a) 
responding to information security events, 
b) 
determining whether information security events become information security incidents, 
c) 
managing information security incidents to a conclusion, 
d) 
responding to information security vulnerabilities, 
e) 
identifying lessons learnt, and any improvements to the scheme and/or security in general that are 
required, and 
f) 
making identified improvements. 4) Responses 
i) 
Review by the ISIRT to determine if the information security incident is under control, and 
- 
if the incident is under control, instigate the required response, either immediately (in real-time 
or in near real-time) or at a later time, 
- 
if the incident is not under control or it is going to have a severe impact on the organization's 
core services, instigate crisis activities through escalation to crisis handling function. In this case the 
following should be addressed: 
a) 
the reporting process for the handling of such exceptions, 
b) 
guidance on the timing for getting approval from management in order to avoid any delay of response, 
and 
c) 
pre-authorized delegation of decision making without normal approval process. Finance of the capability should also be segregated to avoid 
undue influence. of logs), including those showing the progress of an incident, 
and the resolution process and chain of custody, 
n) 
recovery of the information system, service and/or network to normal operation, with the following 
procedures that are in line with the relevant crisis management: 
1) backup testing, 
2) malicious code control, 
3) original media with system and application software, 
4) bootable media, and 
5) clean, reliable and up-to-date system and application patches. In some cases, it may be desirable for the organization to include awareness detail specifically about 
information security incident management in other training programs (for example, personnel orientation 
programs or general corporate security awareness programs). This awareness approach may provide 
valuable context relevant to particular groups of people, and improves training program effectiveness and 
efficiency. Before the information security incident management scheme becomes operational, the organization should 
ensure that all relevant personnel are familiar with the procedures involved in the detection and reporting of 
information security events, and selected personnel are very knowledgeable about the subsequent activities. This should be followed up by regular awareness briefings and training courses. The training should be 
supported by specific exercises and testing for PoC and ISIRT members, and information security personnel 
and specific administrators. Periodic tests should be 
organized to check processes/procedures and to verify how the ISIRT responds to severe complex incidents, 
through the simulation of realistic attacks, failures or faults. Particular attention should be paid to the creation 
of the simulated scenarios, which should be based on real new information security threats. The 
organization should ensure that the appropriate personnel deal with reported information security 
vulnerabilities in a similar manner to how non-information security faults are handled, possibly with 
assessment and resolution using technical personnel (who may or may not be members of the ISIRT). Information on vulnerabilities and their resolutions should be entered into the information security 
event/incident/vulnerability database managed by the ISIRT. For the Responses phase, an organization should ensure that the key activities are the following: 
a) 
Activity to review by the ISIRT to determine if the information security incident is under control, and 
activity below: 
1) Activity to instigate the required response, if it is under control. The overall objectives in responding to information security incidents are the following: 
a) 
to confine the potential adverse impacts (of information security incidents), and 
b) 
to improve information security. Evidence can be protected with cryptography, locks 
and records of access. A further consideration is that the prevention of re-occurrence is usually of high priority, and it might well be 
concluded that the attacker has exposed a vulnerability that should be rectified, and the gains from tracking 
him/her do not justify the effort in doing so. To ensure that the liaisons are organized quickly and are effective, it is necessary to establish a secure 
method of communication in advance that does not wholly rely on the system, service and/or network that 
may be affected by the information security incident. 8.2.2 Assessment of control over information security incidents 
After the ISIRT member has instigated the immediate responses and relevant information security forensics 
analysis and communications activities, it needs to be quickly ascertained whether the information security 
incident is under control. If the information security incident is confirmed as not being under control, then the ISIRT member should 
institute crisis activities. The restoration of an affected system(s), service(s) and/or network(s) to a secure 
operational state may be achieved through the application of patches for known vulnerabilities or by disabling 
an element that was the subject of the compromise. Such activities may include, 
but are not limited to, the activation of: 
a) 
fire suppression facilities and evacuation procedures, 
b) 
flood prevention facilities and evacuation procedures, 
c) 
bomb handling and related evacuation procedures, 
d) 
specialist information system fraud investigators, and 
e) 
specialist technical attack investigators. file, print, communications and e-mail), as well as remote access facilities. g) 
Activity to access the contents of protected or encrypted files (unless prevented by law). i) 
Activity to analyze file access, modification and creation times. The method(s) to be followed should be documented in the ISIRT procedures. 8.2.7 Escalation 
In extreme circumstances, matters may have to be escalated to accommodate incidents that are out of control 
and a potential danger for unacceptable business impact. b) 
Are there any procedures or methods that would have aided in the detection of the incident? Some examples of technically stimulated unauthorized access incidents include: 
 
attempts to retrieve password files, 
 
buffer overflow attacks to attempt to gain privileged (e.g., system administrator) access to a target, 
 
exploitation of protocol vulnerabilities to hijack or misdirect legitimate network connections, 
 
attempts to elevate privileges to resources or information beyond what a user or administrator already 
legitimately possesses. In some cases, technical information gathering extends into unauthorized access if, for example, as part of 
searching for vulnerabilities the attacker also attempts to gain unauthorized access. Network scanning, exploitation of vulnerability, exploitation 
of backdoor, login attempts, interference, DoS, etc. Exploitation of vulnerability exploits and makes use of 
information system defects such as configurations, 
protocols or programs. Exploitation of backdoor makes use of the backdoors or 
harmful programs left in software and hardware system 
design processes. 8.1 Actual 
(incident has occurred) 
 
8.2 Suspected 
(incident thought to have occurred but not 
confirmed) 
 
(One of) 
8.3 Natural disaster 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Earthquake 
 
Volcano 
 
Flood 
 
Violent wind 
 
Lightning 
 
Tsunami 
 
Collapse 
 
Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8.4 Social unrest 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Bedin 
    Terrorist assault 
    War 
    Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8. 10 Technical attack 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Network scanning 
        Exploitation of vulnerability 
        Exploitation of backdoor 
 
Login attempts, Interference 
        Denial of Service (DoS) 
        Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8.11 Breach of rule 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Unauthorized use of resources 
        Breach of copyright 
        Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8. 12 Compromise of functions 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Abuse of rights 
        Forging of rights, Denial of actions 
        Mis-operations 
 
Breach of personnel availability 
        Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8.13 Compromise of information 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Interception 
        Spying, Eavesdropping 
        Disclosure 
 
Masquerade, In those countries where 
specific legislation exists that covers data confidentiality and integrity, it is often restricted to the control of 
personal data. This may include: 
- 
those individuals with access to the personal data should, so far as is practical, not personally know 
the person(s) being investigated, 
- 
non-disclosure agreements should be signed by those individuals with access to the personal data 
prior to them being allowed access to it, 
- 
information should only be used for the express purpose for which it has been obtained, i.e.  Information technology — Security techniques — Code of practice for information 
security management 
[6] 
ISO/IEC 27003, Information technology — Security techniques — Information security management 
system implementation guidance 
[7] 
ISO/IEC 27004, Information technology — Security techniques — Information security management — 
Measurement 
[8] 
ISO/IEC 27005, Information technology — Security techniques — Information security risk 
management 
[9] 
ISO/IEC 27031, Information technology — Security techniques — Guidelines for information and 
communication technology readiness for business continuity 
[10] 
ISO/IEC 27033-1, BS ISO/IEC 27035:2011
ISO/IEC 27035:2011(E) 
© ISO/IEC 2011 – All rights reserved 
77
 
[19] 
Software Engineering Institute at Carnegie Mellon “CERT Coordination Centre”, Incident Management 
Capability Metrics Version 0.1 (2007), http://www.cert.org/archive/pdf/07tr008.pdf 
[20] 
Software Engineering Institute at Carnegie Mellon “CERT Coordination Centre”, Incident Management 
Mission Diagnostic Method Version 1.0, http://www.cert.org/archive/pdf/08tr007.pdf 
[21] 
Software Engineering Institute at Carnegie Mellon “CERT Coordination Centre”, Defining Incident 
Management Processes for CSIRTs: A Work in Progress, http://www.cert.org/archive/pdf/04tr015. Tel: +44 (0)20 8996 7070
Email: copyright@bsigroup.com