 The authors would also like to thank security experts Simon Burson, Anton Chuvakin 
(Gartner), Fred Cohen (Fred Cohen & Associates), Mariano M. del Rio (SIClabs), Jake Evans (Tripwire), 
Walter Houser (SRA), Panos Kampanakis (Cisco), Kathleen Moriarty (EMC), David Schwalenberg 
(National Security Agency), and Wes Young (Research and Education Networking Information Sharing 
and Analysis Center [REN-ISAC]), as well as representatives of the Blue Glacier Management Group, the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Department of Energy, the Department of State, and the 
Federal Aviation Administration for their particularly valuable comments and suggestions. Thus, 
incident prevention is an important complement to an incident response capability.  Attrition: An attack that employs brute force methods to compromise, degrade, or destroy systems, 
networks, or services. 1.3 
Audience 
This document has been created for computer security incident response teams (CSIRTs), system and 
network administrators, security staff, technical support staff, chief information security officers (CISOs), 
chief information officers (CIOs), computer security program managers, and others who are responsible 
for preparing for, or responding to, security incidents. A computer security incident is a violation or imminent threat of violation1 of computer security policies, 
acceptable use policies, or standard security practices. Software vendors may also provide information on known threats (e.g., new attacks) to help 
organizations understand the current threat environment. Some computer security incidents occur through 
breaches of physical security or involve coordinated logical and physical attacks. Only one group within the organization 
should distribute computer security advisories to avoid duplicated effort and conflicting information. Examples include monitoring intrusion detection 
sensors, distributing security advisories, and educating users on security. Although the incident 
response team is not typically responsible for incident prevention, it is fundamental to the success of 
incident response programs. The jump kit should be ready to go at all times. Jump kits contain 
many of the same items listed in the bulleted lists above. For example, each jump kit typically includes a 
laptop, loaded with appropriate software (e.g., packet sniffers, digital forensics). Other important 
materials include backup devices, blank media, and basic networking equipment and cables. Because the 
purpose of having a jump kit is to facilitate faster responses, the team should avoid borrowing items from 
the jump kit. In addition to an investigative laptop, each incident handler should also 
have a standard laptop, smart phone, or other computing device for writing reports, reading email, and 
performing other duties unrelated to the hands-on incident analysis. Exercises involving simulated incidents can also be very useful for preparing staff for incident handling; 
see NIST SP 800-84 for more information on exercises23 and Appendix A for sample exercise scenarios.  Malware Prevention. 30  
More information on malware prevention is available from NIST SP 800-83, Guide to Malware Incident Prevention and 
Handling (http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/PubsSPs.html#800-83). 31  
See NIST SP 800-94, Guide to Intrusion Detection and Prevention Systems, for additional information on IDPS products. For example, only authorized personnel should 
have access to the incident database. The team should plan and prepare several communication methods, 
including out-of-band methods (e.g., in person, paper), and select the methods that are appropriate for a 
particular incident. A detailed log should be kept for all evidence, including the following: 
 Identifying information (e.g., the location, serial number, model number, hostname, media access 
control (MAC) addresses, and IP addresses of a computer) 
 Name, title, and phone number of each individual who collected or handled the evidence during the 
investigation 
 Time and date (including time zone) of each occurrence of evidence handling 
 Locations where the evidence was stored. Recovery may involve 
such actions as restoring systems from clean backups, rebuilding systems from scratch, replacing 
compromised files with clean versions, installing patches, changing passwords, and tightening network 
perimeter security (e.g., firewall rulesets, boundary router access control lists). Organizations should 
decide what incident data to collect based on reporting requirements and on the expected return on 
investment from the data (e.g., identifying a new threat and mitigating the related vulnerabilities before 
they can be exploited.) Intrusion detection and prevention systems, antivirus software, and file integrity checking 
software are valuable for detecting signs of incidents. The most important aspect of 
incident response coordination is information sharing, where different organizations share threat, attack, 
and vulnerability information with each other so that each organization’s knowledge benefits the other. Section 4.2.1 looks at ad hoc methods, while 
Section 4.2.2 examines partially automated methods. Ad hoc information sharing methods are also largely unstandardized in terms of what information is 
communicated and how that communication occurs. Because of the lack of standardization, they tend to 
require manual intervention and to be more resource-intensive to process than the alternative, partially 
automated methods. 4.2.3 Security Considerations 
There are several security considerations that incident response teams should consider when planning 
their information sharing. In many cases, incident response 
teams should avoid sharing business impact information with outside organizations unless there is a clear 
value proposition or formal reporting requirements. Scenario 11: Unknown Wireless Access Point 
On a Monday morning, the organization’s help desk receives calls from three users on the same floor of a 
building who state that they are having problems with their wireless access. He checks with his teammates and determines that this access point was not deployed by his 
team, so that it is most likely a rogue access point that was established without permission. What should be the first major step in handling this incident (e.g., physically finding the rogue 
access point, logically attaching to the access point)? What is the fastest way to locate the access point? What is the most covert way to locate the 
access point? Incident: A violation or imminent threat of violation of computer security policies, acceptable use 
policies, or standard security practices. Threat: The potential source of an adverse event. Vulnerability: A weakness in a system, application, or network that is subject to exploitation or misuse. Access Control 
MOU  
Memorandum of Understanding 
MSSP  
Managed Security Services Provider 
NAT 
 
Network Address Translation 
NDA 
 
Non-Disclosure Agreement 
NIST  
National Institute of Standards and Technology 
NSRL  
National Software Reference Library 
NTP 
 
Network Time Protocol 
NVD 
 
National Vulnerability Database 
OIG 
 
Office of  
RID 
 
Real-Time Inter-Network Defense 
SIEM  
Security Information and Event Management 
SLA 
 
Service Level Agreement 
SOP 
 
Standard Operating Procedure 
SP  
 
Special Publication 
TCP 
 
Transmission Control Protocol 
TCP/IP 
Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol 
TERENA 
Trans-European Research and Education Networking Association  Most organizations have multiple methods for reporting an incident. This should include the chief information 
officer (CIO), the head of information security, and the local security manager. 1.1) 
 Added a mention of exercises (Section 3.1.1) 
 Revised the attack vectors (formerly incident categories) (Section 3.2.1) 
COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
70 
 Added SIEMs, network flows as common sources of precursors and indicators (Section 3.2.3) 
 Expanded discussion of eradication and recovery (Section 3.3.4) 
 Added a section on coordination and information sharing (Section 4) 
 Added a table of data exchange specifications applicable to incident handling (Appendix E)