 The posts, inspired by Katie Nickels’ Sp4rkcon talk “Putting MITRE  
ATT&CK into Action with What You Have, Where You Are,” were written by members of  
the ATT&CK team and focused on what we consider ATT&CK’s four primary use cases. | 3 | 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Threat Intelligence | Katie Nickels 
So how do we make this information actionable, which is the whole point of threat  
intelligence? LEVEL 2 
If you have a team of threat analysts who regularly review information about adversaries, 
a next-level action you can take is to map intelligence to ATT&CK yourself rather than 
using what others have already mapped. Find the behavior—Think about the adversary’s action in a broader way than just the 
atomic indicator (like an IP address) they used. | 5 | 
 
  
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Threat Intelligence | Katie Nickels 
6. Rather than identifying things that are known to be bad and blocking them, ATT&CK-
based analytics involve collecting log and event data about the things happening on your systems 
and using that to identify the suspicious behaviors described in ATT&CK.  Windows 
Event Logs, and many EDR platforms 
Square File and registry monitoring, also often collected by Sysmon, Windows Event Logs, 
and many EDR platforms 
Square Authentication logs, such as those collected from the domain controller via Windows 
Event Logs 
Square Packet capture, especially east/west capture such as that collected between hosts 
and enclaves in your network by sensors such as Zeek 
Once you know what data you have, you’ll need to collect that data into some kind 
of search platform (Security Information and Event Management or SIEM) so you 
can run analytics against it. You might already have this as part of your IT or security 
operations, or it might be something new you need to build. To start,  
look at the technique description from ATT&CK and the threat intel reports linked in the  
examples. For example, you can find their  
list of attacks for Regsvr32, including Squiblydoo. Of course, if you’re already doing red  
teaming, feel free to run the attacks you know yourself (on systems where you have  
permission!) and try to develop analytics for those! Bonus Level 0 Content: Really want to create your own analytics and run your own attacks  
but don’t have your own network? At this stage, you’re looking for things that make this malicious event look distinctive. A general pattern to follow is to write the search to detect malicious behavior, revise it to  
filter out false positives, make sure it still detects the malicious behavior, and then repeat  
to reduce other sorts of false positives. Test that confidence and improve your defenses by doing some purple  
teaming! In the real world, adversaries don’t just carry out cookie cutter attacks copy/pasted  
from some book. Let’s  
explore how security teams can use ATT&CK for adversary emulation to help improve their  
organizations. It allows the operator to pick one technique or chain many together when  
building the test, which allows you to start to automate sequences of behaviors for your  
testing rather than manually executing single Atomic Tests. To advance your teams and the impact they’re 
having even more, you can collaborate with your organization’s CTI team to tailor 
engagements toward a specific adversary using data they collect by creating your own 
adversary emulation plan. There is a much higher level of impact when visibility and control gaps are exposed by  
security testing when you can show a high likelihood that they have been leveraged by a  
known adversary. Consider: 
Square How did the threat group use this technique? Tip: A frequently cited data source is Windows Event Logs, which provide visibility into 
many ATT&CK techniques. A good resource for getting started with event logs is Malware 
Archaeology’s Windows ATT&CK Logging Cheat Sheet, which maps Windows events to the 
techniques you could detect with them. As an example, you might have an analytic that looks at a specific  
Windows event; to determine this analytic’s coverage, you can look up the event ID in  
the Windows ATT&CK Logging Cheat Sheet or a similar repository. A good way to identify how you’re mitigating techniques is to go through each of 
your SOC’s policies, preventative tools, and security controls, then map them to the 
ATT&CK technique(s) they may impact, and then add those techniques to your heatmap 
of coverage. Tip: If you’re particularly well-resourced, you can stand up a representative test  
environment to test the tool live, recording where it did well and where it didn’t do so well,  
and how adding it would impact your existing coverage. Tip: Always weigh the potential loss of visibility when investigating removing detections  
in favor of mitigations. | 38 | 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Assessments and Engineering | Andy Applebaum 
VISUALIZATION OF ATT&CK USE CASES 
| 39 | 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ABOUT THE AUTHORS  
Andy Applebaum is a principal cybersecurity engineer at MITRE where he 
works on applied and theoretical security research problems, primarily in 
the realms of cyber defense, security automation, and automated adversary 
emulation. Katie Nickels is the ATT&CK threat intelligence lead at MITRE, where she 
focuses on sharing how ATT&CK is useful for moving toward a threat-
informed defense. She is also a SANS instructor for FOR578: Cyber Threat 
Intelligence. Adam has presented and published in a number of venues including 
FIRST CTI, USENIX Security, and ACM Transactions on Information and System Security. He spends 
most of his days promoting red and blue team collaboration to help sponsors 
improve their security. He advocates for security 
through verification at all points at which an adversary could be detected or stopped 
because defenders should not wait for a real intrusion to see if their methods work. | 41 | 
|  Solving Problems for a Safer World