 Insufficient preparation 
by an organization to deal with such incidents will make any response less effective, and increase the degree 
of potential adverse business impact. not all 
information security events are classified as information security incidents. A threat acts in unwanted ways to exploit the vulnerabilities (weaknesses) of information systems, services or 
networks, which is the occurrence of information security events and potentially causes unwanted incidents to 
information assets exposed by the vulnerabilities. The primary steps to minimize the direct negative impact of information security incidents are the following: 
 
stop and contain, 
 
eradicate, 
 
analyse and report, and 
 
follow up. d) 
Reported information security vulnerabilities are assessed and dealt with appropriately. These are important considerations if legal prosecution or 
disciplinary action might follow. g) 
Improving updates to information security risk assessment and management results 
The use of a structured approach to information security incident management will facilitate the 
- better collection of data for assisting in the identification and determination of the characteristics of the 
various threat types and associated vulnerabilities, and 
- provision of data on frequencies of occurrence of the identified threat types. The data collected on the adverse impacts on business operations from information security incidents will 
be useful in the business impact analysis. The data collected to identify the occurrence frequency of the 
various threat types will greatly aid the quality of the threat assessment. Their consequences may include the disclosure, modification, 
destruction, or unavailability of information in an unauthorized manner, or the damage or theft of 
organizational assets. 2) The information security event/incident/vulnerability forms: 
i) 
completed by the person reporting an information security event (i.e. Such mechanisms could include the 
following: 
1) Internal information security audit mechanisms to assess the security level and track vulnerable 
systems, 
2) Vulnerability management (including security updates and security patching of vulnerable systems). Particular attention 
should be given to the creation of tests that focus on the evolving vulnerability, threat and risk scenarios 
(see Clause 5.8). The information security incident management 
scheme comes into effect whenever an information security event is detected, or an information security 
vulnerability is reported. Each organization should use the scheme as a guide for: 
a) 
responding to information security events, 
b) 
determining whether information security events become information security incidents, 
c) 
managing information security incidents to a conclusion, 
d) 
responding to information security vulnerabilities, 
e) 
identifying lessons learnt, and any improvements to the scheme and/or security in general that are 
required, and 
f) 
making identified improvements. iii) Detecting and reporting on information security vulnerabilities. ix) Dealing with information security vulnerabilities. ii) 
Identifying the lessons learnt from information security incidents and vulnerabilities. Each organization should have provisions that clearly 
illustrate the expectation of anonymity, or lack thereof, for persons or parties reporting a potential information 
security incident or vulnerability. An ISIRT contributes to the reduction in physical and monetary 
damage, as well as the reduction of the damage to the organization's reputation that is sometimes associated 
with information security incidents. d) 
incident information held in, and the outputs from the information security event/incident/vulnerability 
database, 
e) 
controls on confidentiality of sources as relevant, 
f) 
scheme service level agreements, 
g) 
notification of outcomes – under what circumstances sources are advised, 
h) 
any constraints imposed by non-disclosure agreements, 
i) 
the authority of the information security incident management organization and its reporting line, and 
j) 
who receives reports from the information security incident management scheme, and how the reports 
are distributed. In some cases, it may be desirable for the organization to include awareness detail specifically about 
information security incident management in other training programs (for example, personnel orientation 
programs or general corporate security awareness programs). This awareness approach may provide 
valuable context relevant to particular groups of people, and improves training program effectiveness and 
efficiency. Before the information security incident management scheme becomes operational, the organization should 
ensure that all relevant personnel are familiar with the procedures involved in the detection and reporting of 
information security events, and selected personnel are very knowledgeable about the subsequent activities. This should be followed up by regular awareness briefings and training courses. The training should be 
supported by specific exercises and testing for PoC and ISIRT members, and information security personnel 
and specific administrators. Periodic tests should be 
organized to check processes/procedures and to verify how the ISIRT responds to severe complex incidents, 
through the simulation of realistic attacks, failures or faults. The 
organization should ensure that the appropriate personnel deal with reported information security 
vulnerabilities in a similar manner to how non-information security faults are handled, possibly with 
assessment and resolution using technical personnel (who may or may not be members of the ISIRT). However, the most likely situation is that the 
information security incident needs to be referred directly to the ISIRT for further assessment and action. For those considered relevant, 
the related category guideline should be used to establish the potential or actual impacts for entry into the 
information security incident report. If the incident causes severe negative impact on 
the business, crisis activities should be initiated. For those considered relevant, the related category guideline should be used to establish the potential or 
actual impacts for entry into the information security incident report. The overall objectives in responding to information security incidents are the following: 
a) 
to confine the potential adverse impacts (of information security incidents), and 
b) 
to improve information security. It is vitally important to follow planned processes and record action. Beware of Trojans, rootkits and kernel 
modules that may cause serious damage to the system. This is especially relevant when the attacker is non-malicious and 
has caused little or no damage. q) 
Activity to provide expert support to any disciplinary or legal action as required. 8.2.7 Escalation 
In extreme circumstances, matters may have to be escalated to accommodate incidents that are out of control 
and a potential danger for unacceptable business impact. b) 
Activity to identify the lessons learnt from information security incidents and vulnerabilities. A complete vulnerability assessment is used to highlight the existence of the 
vulnerabilities exploited during the information security incident on other information systems, services and/or 
networks and to ensure that no new vulnerabilities are introduced. A.13.2.3 Collection of evidence 
Control: Where a follow-up action against a person or organization 
after an information security incident involves legal action (either 
civil or criminal), evidence should be collected, retained, and 
presented to conform to the rules for evidence laid down in the 
relevant jurisdiction(s). DoS incidents caused by non-technical means, resulting in loss of information, service and/or facilities, could 
be caused, for example, by: 
 
breaches of physical security arrangements resulting in theft or wilful damage and destruction of 
equipment, 
 
accidental damage to hardware (and/or its location) by fire or water damage/flood, 
 
extreme environmental conditions, for example high operating temperatures (e.g. This commonly occurs 
with automated hacking tools that not only search for vulnerabilities but also automatically attempt to exploit 
the vulnerable systems, services and/or networks that are found. Physical 
damage 
incident 
The loss of information 
security is caused by 
deliberately or accidentally 
physical actions. Illegal content is published content that violate national or 
international constitutions, laws and regulations, for 
example, child pornography, violence glorification, 
counterfeit, fraud. It 
would mean enormous cost to recover business to normal operation and eliminate the negative effects. It would mean high cost to recover business 
to normal operation and eliminate the negative effects. It would mean considerable cost to recover business to normal operation and 
eliminate the negative effects. It would mean minor cost to recover business to normal operation and eliminate 
the negative effects. BS ISO/IEC 27035:2011
ISO/IEC 27035:2011(E) 
© ISO/IEC 2011 – All rights reserved 
55
 
C.3.1.1.4 Social Impact 
The impact on society caused by information security incidents is determined by considering the scale and 
degree of the impact on national security, social order, economic development and public interest. This 
approach classifies social impact into four levels: especially important social impact, important social impact, 
considerable social impact and minor social impact, as described below. Such a scale can be simple as ‘major’ and ‘minor’ or more detailed as: 
 
Emergency: severe impact; 
 
Critical: medium impact; 
 
Warning: low impact; 
 
Information: no impact, but analysis could be used to improve information security policies, procedures or 
controls. C.3.1.2.5 Small (Class I) 
Small incidents are those that 
a) 
act on ordinary important information systems and 
b) 
result in minor business loss or no business loss, and 
c) 
lead to minor social impact or no social impact 
d) 
no action required and no consequences. 1 No entry 
2 Cause local embarrassment within the organization 
3 Adversely affect relations with shareholders, customers, suppliers, employees, third party users, regulatory 
bodies, the government, other organizations or the public, resulting in local/regional adverse publicity 
4 No entry 
5 Adversely affect relations with shareholders, customers, suppliers, employees, third party users, regulatory 
bodies, the government, other organizations or the public, resulting in some national adverse publicity 
6 No entry 
7 Materially affect relations with shareholders, customers, suppliers, employees, D.2 Example items in records 
D.2.1 Example items of the record for information security event 
This includes basic information of the information security event, such as when, what, how and why the event 
occurred, as well as the contact information of the reporting person. Whether the 
information 
security 
event 
is 
classified 
as 
an 
incident 
or 
not, 
the 
information 
security 
event/incident/vulnerability database should be updated. Date of Event 
 
 
Page 1 of 1 
2. Event Number3 
 
3. INFORMATION SECURITY EVENT DETAILS 
6.1 Date and Time the Event Occurred 
 
6.2 Date and Time the Event was Discovered 
 
6.3 Date and Time the Event was Reported 
 
6.4 Is the Response to this Event Closed? 8.1 Actual 
(incident has occurred) 
 
8.2 Suspected 
(incident thought to have occurred but not 
confirmed) 
 
(One of) 
8.3 Natural disaster 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Earthquake 
 
Volcano 
 
Flood 
 
Violent wind 
 
Lightning 
 
Tsunami 
 
Collapse 
 
Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8.4 Social unrest 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Bedin 
    Terrorist assault 
    War 
    Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8. 10 Technical attack 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Network scanning 
        Exploitation of vulnerability 
        Exploitation of backdoor 
 
Login attempts, Interference 
        Denial of Service (DoS) 
        Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8.11 Breach of rule 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Unauthorized use of resources 
        Breach of copyright 
        Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8. 12 Compromise of functions 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Abuse of rights 
        Forging of rights, Denial of actions 
        Mis-operations 
 
Breach of personnel availability 
        Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8.13 Compromise of information 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Interception 
        Spying, Eavesdropping 
        Disclosure 
 
Masquerade, ‘no action’, ‘in-house action’, ‘internal 
investigation’, ‘external’ investigation by ...’) 
 
17. The issues of potential liability, and related required controls to be in place, 
need to be clarified.  Information technology — Security techniques — Code of practice for information 
security management 
[6] 
ISO/IEC 27003, Information technology — Security techniques — Information security management 
system implementation guidance 
[7] 
ISO/IEC 27004, Information technology — Security techniques — Information security management — 
Measurement 
[8] 
ISO/IEC 27005, Information technology — Security techniques — Information security risk 
management 
[9] 
ISO/IEC 27031, Information technology — Security techniques — Guidelines for information and 
communication technology readiness for business continuity 
[10] 
ISO/IEC 27033-1, Tel: +44 (0)20 8996 7070
Email: copyright@bsigroup.com