 Functional Impact Categories ...................................................................................33 
Table 3-3. Information Impact Categories .................................................................................33 
Table 3-4.  Improper Usage: Any incident resulting from violation of an organization’s acceptable usage 
policies by an authorized user, excluding the above categories. Incidents should be prioritized based on the relevant factors, 
such as the functional impact of the incident (e.g., current and likely future negative impact to business 
functions), the information impact of the incident (e.g., effect on the confidentiality, integrity, and 
availability of the organization’s information), and the recoverability from the incident (e.g., the time and 
types of resources that must be spent on recovering from the incident). 1.3 
Audience 
This document has been created for computer security incident response teams (CSIRTs), system and 
network administrators, security staff, technical support staff, chief information security officers (CISOs), 
chief information officers (CIOs), computer security program managers, and others who are responsible 
for preparing for, or responding to, security incidents. 2.1 
Events and Incidents 
An event is any observable occurrence in a system or network. Adverse events are events with a negative consequence, such as system crashes, 
packet floods, unauthorized use of system privileges, unauthorized access to sensitive data, and execution 
of malware that destroys data. A computer security incident is a violation or imminent threat of violation1 of computer security policies, 
acceptable use policies, or standard security practices. Another benefit of incident 
response is the ability to use information gained during incident handling to better prepare for handling 
                                                      
1  
An “imminent threat of violation” refers to a situation in which the organization has a factual basis for believing that a 
specific incident is about to occur. – What is the impact of this incident? In addition, agencies have an 
Office of Inspector General (OIG) for investigation of violation of the law within each agency. Software vendors may also provide information on known threats (e.g., new attacks) to help 
organizations understand the current threat environment. The incident handlers analyze the 
incident data, determine the impact of the incident, and act appropriately to limit the damage and restore 
normal services. Real-time availability is the best for incident response because the longer 
an incident lasts, the more potential there is for damage and loss. Outsourcers may possess deeper knowledge of intrusion detection, forensics, 
vulnerabilities, exploits, and other aspects of security than employees of the organization. Some computer security incidents occur through 
breaches of physical security or involve coordinated logical and physical attacks. Examples include monitoring intrusion detection 
sensors, distributing security advisories, and educating users on security. 21  
A digital forensic workstation is specially designed to assist incident handlers in acquiring and analyzing data. COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
23 
Incident Analysis Resources: 
 Port lists, including commonly used ports and Trojan horse ports 
 Documentation for OSs, applications, protocols, and intrusion detection and antivirus products 
 Network diagrams and lists of critical assets, such as database servers 
 Current baselines of expected network, system, and application activity 
 Cryptographic hashes of critical files22 to speed incident analysis, verification, and eradication 
Incident Mitigation Software: 
 Access to images of clean OS and application installations for restoration and recovery purposes 
Many incident response teams create a jump kit, which is a portable case that contains materials that may 
be needed during an investigation. The jump kit should be ready to go at all times. Jump kits contain 
many of the same items listed in the bulleted lists above. For example, each jump kit typically includes a 
laptop, loaded with appropriate software (e.g., packet sniffers, digital forensics). Other important 
materials include backup devices, blank media, and basic networking equipment and cables. Note that because this laptop is special purpose, 
it is likely to use software other than the standard enterprise tools and configurations, and whenever 
possible the incident handlers should be allowed to specify basic technical requirements for these special-
purpose investigative laptops. In addition to an investigative laptop, each incident handler should also 
have a standard laptop, smart phone, or other computing device for writing reports, reading email, and 
performing other duties unrelated to the hands-on incident analysis. Exercises involving simulated incidents can also be very useful for preparing staff for incident handling; 
see NIST SP 800-84 for more information on exercises23 and Appendix A for sample exercise scenarios. This can lead to slow and incomplete responses, which translate to a larger 
negative business impact (e.g., more extensive damage, longer periods of service and data unavailability).  Email: An attack executed via an email message or attachment—for example, exploit code disguised 
as an attached document or a link to a malicious website in the body of an email message.  The volume of potential signs of incidents is typically high—for example, it is not uncommon for an 
organization to receive thousands or even millions of intrusion detection sensor alerts per day. Examples of precursors are: 
 Web server log entries that show the usage of a vulnerability scanner 
 An announcement of a new exploit that targets a vulnerability of the organization’s mail server 
 A threat from a group stating that the group will attack the organization. Logs can be used for 
analysis by correlating event information. Depending on the event information, an alert can be 
generated to indicate an incident. Publicly Available Information 
Information on 
new 
vulnerabilities 
and exploits 
Keeping up with new vulnerabilities and exploits can prevent some incidents from occurring and 
assist in detecting and analyzing new attacks. It is important to 
accurately determine the cause of each incident so that it can be fully contained and the exploited 
vulnerabilities can be mitigated to prevent similar incidents from occurring. For example, any devices that are potential 
sources of evidence should not themselves be used to record other evidence. Incidents targeting IT systems typically impact the business 
functionality that those systems provide, resulting in some type of negative impact to the users of 
those systems.  Information Impact of the Incident. An incident with a high functional impact and low effort to recover from is an ideal 
candidate for immediate action from the team. Another potential issue regarding containment is that some attacks may cause additional damage when 
they are contained. Handlers should not 
assume that just because a host has been disconnected from the network, further damage to the host has 
been prevented. However, incident handlers should treat any 
such information that they acquire only as a potential lead, not as fact. Finally, it is also important to document the major points of 
agreement and action items and to communicate them to parties who could not attend the meeting. Organizations should 
decide what incident data to collect based on reporting requirements and on the expected return on 
investment from the data (e.g., identifying a new threat and mitigating the related vulnerabilities before 
they can be exploited.) COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
41 
– Determining if the actual cause of the incident was identified, and identifying the vector of attack, 
the vulnerabilities exploited, and the characteristics of the targeted or victimized systems, 
networks, and applications 
– Determining if the incident is a recurrence of a previous incident 
– Calculating the estimated monetary damage from the incident (e.g., information and critical 
business processes negatively affected by the incident) 
– Measuring the difference between the initial impact assessment and the final impact assessment 
(see Section 3.2.6) 
– Identifying which measures, if any, could have prevented the incident. Incident Handling Checklist 
Action 
Completed 
Detection and Analysis 
1.  Perform event correlation. The most important aspect of 
incident response coordination is information sharing, where different organizations share threat, attack, 
and vulnerability information with each other so that each organization’s knowledge benefits the other. 4.2.3 Security Considerations 
There are several security considerations that incident response teams should consider when planning 
their information sharing. 4.3.1 Business Impact Information 
Business impact information involves how the incident is affecting the organization in terms of mission 
impact, financial impact, etc. If so, which of the organization’s 
policies does this activity violate? Would any precursors 
cause the organization to take action before the incident occurred? – Prioritization factors (functional impact, information impact, recoverability, etc.) Event: Any observable occurrence in a network or system. Incident: A violation or imminent threat of violation of computer security policies, acceptable use 
policies, or standard security practices. Threat: The potential source of an adverse event. In general, an incident is a violation of computer security policies, acceptable use policies, or 
standard computer security practices. The team receives information on possible incidents, investigates them, and takes action to ensure 
that the damage caused by the incidents is minimized. Generally, the highest priority is handling incidents that are likely to cause 
the most damage to the organization or to other organizations. This effort includes every action that is performed, every piece of evidence, 
and every conversation with users, system owners, and others regarding the incident. This should include the chief information 
officer (CIO), the head of information security, and the local security manager. Identify and mitigate all vulnerabilities that were exploited. The incident may have occurred by 
taking advantage of vulnerabilities in operating systems or applications. It is critical to identify such 
vulnerabilities and eliminate or otherwise mitigate them so that the incident does not recur. 1.1) 
 Added a mention of exercises (Section 3.1.1) 
 Revised the attack vectors (formerly incident categories) (Section 3.2.1) 
COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
70 
 Added SIEMs, network flows as common sources of precursors and indicators (Section 3.2.3) 
 Expanded discussion of eradication and recovery (Section 3.3.4) 
 Added a section on coordination and information sharing (Section 4) 
 Added a table of data exchange specifications applicable to incident handling (Appendix E)