 Introduction 
MITRE ATT&CK is a curated knowledge base and model for cyber adversary behavior, 
reflecting the various phases of an adversary’s attack lifecycle and the platforms they are known 
to target. At a high-level, ATT&CK is a behavioral model that consists of the following 
core components: 
• Tactics, denoting short-term, tactical adversary goals during an attack; 
• Techniques, describing the means by which adversaries achieve tactical goals; 
• Sub-techniques, describing more specific means by which adversaries achieve tactical 
goals at a lower level than techniques; and 
• Documented adversary usage of techniques, their procedures, and other metadata. ATT&CK is not an exhaustive enumeration of attack vectors against software. Cyber Threat Intelligence Enrichment – Cyber threat intelligence covers knowledge of cyber 
threats and threat actor groups that impact cybersecurity. This relatively simple representation 
strikes a useful balance between sufficient technical detail at the technique level and the context 
around why actions occur at the tactic level. There could be 
many ways of detecting a (sub-)technique but 
ATT&CK and MITRE do not endorse any particular 
vendor solution. Mitigation 
fields are populated on a (sub-)technique page when 
a mitigation object is associated to a 
(sub-)technique.. The relationship describes the 
details of how a specific mitigation can be applied to 
the (sub-)technique. Mitigation recommendations 
remain vendor agnostic, recommending the general 
method or capability class rather than a specific tool. Mitigation may not always be possible for a given 
(sub-)technique and is documented as such if no 
relationships to a given (sub-)technique are present. 3.4.3 Sub-Technique Details 
The addition of sub-techniques to ATT&CK in 2020 marked a significant shift to how behavior 
is described within the knowledge base. The change was driven by the need to fix some of the 
technique abstraction level issues that occurred as ATT&CK grew over the years. Groups are defined as 
named intrusion sets, threat groups, actor groups, or campaigns that typically represent targeted, 
persistent threat activity. Software is broken out into two high-level 
categories: tools and malware. Distribution unlimited 19-01075-28. 
security from a defender’s perspective with a top-down view, such as the CIA2 model, focus on 
vulnerability scoring, such as CVSS [6], or primarily account for risk calculations, such as 
DREAD [7]. Threat intelligence analysts typically track incidents, threat groups, and how their TTPs evolve 
over time. A mid-level model is also useful 
to put lower level concepts into context. Behavior-based techniques are the focus as opposed to 
exploits and malware because they are numerous but are difficult to reason about them with a 
holistic defensive program other than regular vulnerability scans, rapid patching, and IOCs. Figure 4 shows a 
comparison of the level of abstraction between high, mid, and low level models and threat 
knowledge databases: 
 
 
Figure 5. • An appropriate level of categorization to relate adversary’s action and specific ways of 
defending against it. Sub-techniques often 
signify how a technique is used at a lower level of abstraction. ATT&CK remains strongly tied to threat intelligence sources on 
persistent threat groups. There are also fewer persistent threat incidents reported against Linux and 
Mac systems than there are against Windows, causing available threat data to be substantially 
less available. • Fundamentally, SQLi is exploiting a vulnerability in web application software due to 
poor code design and is not a benign behavior that an adversary could use for some 
purpose. • SQLi is a predominant vulnerability that occurs frequently across many different types of 
web applications, regardless of language or platform they are written in. Conclusions: 
• The context in which SQLi fits within an adversary’s tactical goals puts it within attempts 
to gain access to a system through an existing software vulnerability. Adoption of ATT&CK is widespread across multiple disciplines, including intrusion detection, 
threat hunting, security engineering, threat intelligence, red teaming, and risk management. Available: https://medium.com/mitre-attack/2020-attack-roadmap-4820d30b38ba. [2]  The MITRE Corporation, "Common Attack Pattern Enumeration and Classification," 21 
February 2018. Available: https://medium.com/mitre-attack/how-to-be-a-savvy-attack-consumer-
63e45b8e94c9. [11] FIRST, "Common Vulnerability Scoring System v3.0: Specification Document," 2018. [Accessed 16 March 2020].