 Adam Pennington  
Principal Cybersecurity Engineer  
ATT&CK Blog Editor in Chief  
MITRE 
attack.mitre.org 
medium.com/mitre-attack 
twitter.com/MITREattack 
linkedin.com/showcase/mitre-att&ck 
| 1 | 
1 Threat Intelligence 
Katie Nickels 
Based on feedback from ATT&CK users, both at the first ATT&CKcon and from other avenues,  
we’ve learned a lot. We’ll break each of these posts into different levels: 
Square Level 1 for those just starting out who may not have many resources 
Square Level 2 for mid-level teams starting to mature 
Square Level 3 for more advanced cybersecurity teams and resources 
We’re kicking off this book by talking about threat intelligence because it’s the best use case  
(though I’m sure my colleagues might disagree with that!). | 3 | 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Threat Intelligence | Katie Nickels 
So how do we make this information actionable, which is the whole point of threat  
intelligence? LEVEL 2 
If you have a team of threat analysts who regularly review information about adversaries, 
a next-level action you can take is to map intelligence to ATT&CK yourself rather than 
using what others have already mapped. | 5 | 
 
  
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Threat Intelligence | Katie Nickels 
6. 2 Detection and Analytics 
John Wunder 
Hopefully you had a chance to read in Chapter 1 on getting started using ATT&CK for threat  
intelligence, which walked through understanding what adversaries are doing to attack you and  
how to use that knowledge to prioritize what to defend. As with the first chapter in this book, this chapter will be broken up by levels based on how  
sophisticated your team is and what resources you have access to: 
Square Level 1 for those just starting out who may not have many resources 
Square Level 2 for those who are mid-level teams starting to mature 
Square Level 3 for those with more advanced cybersecurity teams and resources 
Building analytics to detect ATT&CK techniques might be different from how you’re used to doing 
detection. Bonus Level 0 Content: Need access to a good enterprise dataset for testing? To start,  
look at the technique description from ATT&CK and the threat intel reports linked in the  
examples. For example, you can find their  
list of attacks for Regsvr32, including Squiblydoo. Of course, if you’re already doing red  
teaming, feel free to run the attacks you know yourself (on systems where you have  
permission!) and try to develop analytics for those! Bonus Level 0 Content: Really want to create your own analytics and run your own attacks  
but don’t have your own network? | 14 | 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Detection and Analytics | John Wunder 
OUTPUT FROM RUNNING THE SQUIBLYDOO ATTACK TO LAUNCH CALC.EXE  
Once you’ve run the attack, look inside your SIEM to see what log data was generated. They can then find and execute an attack that  
will evade that analytic. In the end, you want to be developing a more  
and more comprehensive set of detections so that you can detect more and more of the  
things that adversaries do to attack us—and ATT&CK gives you the scorecard to do so. Continuing the theme of the previous chapters, this section will be broken up by levels based on  
your team’s level of sophistication and what resources you have access to: 
Square Level 1 for those just starting out who may not have many resources 
Square Level 2 for those who are mid-level teams starting to mature 
Square Level 3 for those with more advanced cybersecurity teams and resources 
For those unfamiliar with it, adversary emulation is a type of red team engagement that mimics  
a known threat to an organization by blending in threat intelligence to define what actions  
and behaviors the red team uses. It allows the operator to pick one technique or chain many together when  
building the test, which allows you to start to automate sequences of behaviors for your  
testing rather than manually executing single Atomic Tests. Consider: 
Square How did the threat group use this technique? Square Leveraging Microsoft EMET’s Attack Surface Reduction rules can make it harder to 
use RunDLL32. Katie Nickels is the ATT&CK threat intelligence lead at MITRE, where she 
focuses on sharing how ATT&CK is useful for moving toward a threat-
informed defense. She is also a SANS instructor for FOR578: Cyber Threat 
Intelligence. | 41 | 
|  Solving Problems for a Safer World