Data extracted from: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mitre-attack/attack-stix-
data/master/enterprise-attack/enterprise-attack.json 
 
Obs. Authorization has to be granted to specific users in order to perform tasks that can be 
considered of higher risk. However, adversaries commonly use 
token stealing to elevate their security context from the administrator level to the SYSTEM level. This kind of targeted campaign is often referred to a 
strategic web compromise or watering hole attack. Depending on the software and nature of the 
vulnerability, some may be exploited in the browser or require the user to open a file. (Citation: Bugcrowd Replay Attack)(Citation: Comparitech Replay 
Attack)(Citation: Microsoft Midnight Blizzard Replay Attack) 
 
Such exploitation has been demonstrated in cloud environments as well. There are examples of 
antivirus software being targeted by persistent threat groups to avoid detection. (Citation: WithSecure Lazarus-NoPineapple Threat Intel 
Report 2023)(Citation: Cadet Blizzard emerges as novel threat actor) In cloud environments, 
adversaries may leverage utilities such as the Azure VM Agent’s `CollectGuestLogs.exe` to 
collect security logs from cloud hosted infrastructure. They achieve this by restricting traffic types to enforce organizational policy 
in an attempt to reduce the risk inherent in such connections. Because the alternate 
authentication must be maintained by the system—either in memory or on disk—it may be at 
risk of being stolen through [Credential Access](https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0006) 
techniques. This poses a greater risk of 
unauthorized disclosure and may help facilitate data manipulation, Credential Access, or 
Collection efforts. (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire)(Citation: Krebs-Anna)(Citation: Krebs-
Bazaar)(Citation: Krebs-Booter) 
  Parent Technique: T1583 
  Associated Tactics: TA0042 
 
T1584.005: Botnet 
  Description: Adversaries may compromise numerous third-party systems to form a botnet that 
can be used during targeting. A botnet is a network of compromised systems that can be 
instructed to perform coordinated tasks. (Citation: Norton Botnet) Instead of purchasing/renting a 
botnet from a booter/stresser service, adversaries may build their own botnet by compromising 
numerous third-party systems. (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire) Adversaries may also conduct 
a takeover of an existing botnet, such as redirecting bots to adversary-controlled C2 
servers. CMSTP.exe can also be abused to [Bypass User Account 
Control](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1548/002) and execute arbitrary commands from a 
malicious INF through an auto-elevated COM interface. When a user 
attempts to browse a website that presents a certificate that is not trusted an error message will 
be displayed to warn the user of the security risk. Launch Agents are created with user level privileges and 
execute with user level permissions. Threat actors can use 
online resources and lookup tools to harvest information from these services. Enumerating the SAM database requires SYSTEM level access. Adversaries may also install user level 
timers to achieve user level persistence. Threat actors 
can use online resources and lookup tools to harvest information about certificates. This DoS attack may also reduce the availability and 
functionality of the targeted system(s) and network. This kind of targeted 
campaign is referred to a strategic web compromise or watering hole attack. If the original process and thread are running under a higher permissions level, 
then the replaced binary will also execute under higher-level permissions, which could include 
SYSTEM. An adversary accomplishes a reflection attack by 
sending packets to reflectors with the spoofed address of the victim. If the original process and thread 
are running under a higher permissions level, then the replaced binary will also execute under 
higher-level permissions, which could include SYSTEM. This decision may be employed by malware developers and operators to 
reduce their risk of attracting the attention of specific law enforcement agencies or 
prosecution/scrutiny from other entities. Associated Tactics: TA0004, TA0005 
 
T1597.001: Threat Intel Vendors 
  Description: Adversaries may search private data from threat intelligence vendors for 
information that can be used during targeting. Threat intelligence vendors may offer paid feeds 
or portals that offer more data than what is publicly reported. Adversaries may find vulnerability information by searching open databases or gaining access 
to closed vulnerability databases. (Citation: National Vulnerability Database) 
 
An adversary may monitor vulnerability disclosures/databases to understand the state of 
existing, as well as newly discovered, vulnerabilities. There is usually a delay between when a 
vulnerability is discovered and when it is made public. An adversary may target the systems of 
those known to conduct vulnerability research (including commercial vendors). Knowledge of a 
vulnerability may cause an adversary to search for an existing exploit (i.e. Associated Tactics: TA0002