 3.3 
information security event 
identified occurrence of a system, service or network state indicating a possible breach of information security, 
policy or failure of controls, or a previously unknown situation that may be security relevant 
[ISO/IEC 27000:2009] 
3.4 
information security incident 
single or a series of unwanted or unexpected information security events that have a significant probability of 
compromising business operations and threatening information security 
[ISO/IEC 27000:2009] 
4 
Overview 
4.1 Basic concepts 
An information security event is an identified occurrence of a system, service or network state indicating a 
possible breach of information security policy or failure of controls, or a previously unknown situation that may 
be security relevant. An information security incident is a single or a series of unwanted or unexpected 
information security events that have a significant probability of compromising business operations and 
threatening information security. If there are no clear procedures, there is a risk that investigation 
activities could be conducted in a reactive mode, by responding to incidents as they occur and 
overlooking what activities are needed. g) 
Improving updates to information security risk assessment and management results 
The use of a structured approach to information security incident management will facilitate the 
- better collection of data for assisting in the identification and determination of the characteristics of the 
various threat types and associated vulnerabilities, and 
- provision of data on frequencies of occurrence of the identified threat types. The data collected to identify the occurrence frequency of the 
various threat types will greatly aid the quality of the threat assessment. A high-level view of these phases is shown in Figure 2. b) 
Activity to update information security and risk management policies at a corporate level and specific 
system, service and network levels. Particular attention 
should be given to the creation of tests that focus on the evolving vulnerability, threat and risk scenarios 
(see Clause 5.8). For guidance on information security risk assessment and management, see ISO/IEC 27005:2008. This awareness approach may provide 
valuable context relevant to particular groups of people, and improves training program effectiveness and 
efficiency. Before the information security incident management scheme becomes operational, the organization should 
ensure that all relevant personnel are familiar with the procedures involved in the detection and reporting of 
information security events, and selected personnel are very knowledgeable about the subsequent activities. BS ISO/IEC 27035:2011
ISO/IEC 27035:2011(E) 
22 
© ISO/IEC 2011 – All rights reserved
 
5.8 Scheme testing 
The organization should schedule regular checking and testing of the information security incident 
management processes and procedures to highlight potential flaws and problems that may arise during the 
management of information security events and incidents and vulnerabilities. e-mail) are themselves visible targets for attack. This includes when it is thought possible that the system 
is under attack and unauthorized people could read reporting electronic forms. With regard to information security incidents that are caused by something other than deliberate attack, the 
source should be identified. This may take longer if the vulnerability is fundamental to the 
information system, service and/or network design, or if it is a critical vulnerability. e-mail or web), 
including when it is thought possible that the system is under attack, the report to the relevant people should 
be done by telephone or text messaging. b) 
New or changed threat and vulnerability information and thus changes to the organization's existing 
information security risk assessment and management review results. 9.5 Identifying and making improvements to information security risk assessment and 
management review results 
Depending on the severity and impact of an information security incident (or the severity and potential impact 
related to a reported information security vulnerability), an assessment of information security risk assessment 
and management review results may be necessary to take into account new threats and vulnerabilities. the source of the attack is ‘faked’), since they typically do not rely on the attacker receiving any information 
back from the network or system being attacked. An organization could not bear this level of business loss. An organization could bear this level of business 
loss. In some approaches, the most serious class is 
represented as the highest scale level. In other approaches, the most serious is represented as the lowest 
scale level. 3 Example items of the record for information security vulnerability 
This includes basic information of the information security vulnerability, such as when, what and how the 
vulnerability was identified, as well as the potential impact and the resolution 
Basic information 
Date of vulnerability identified 
Vulnerability number 
Reporting person details 
 
Name 
Contact information such as address, organization, department, telephone and e-mail 
Vulnerability description 
Vulnerability resolution 
D.3 How to use forms 
D.3.1 Format of date and time 
Dates should be entered in the format CCYY-MM-DD (and if required HH-MM-SS). The purpose of the information security vulnerability report form is to provide information about a perceived 
vulnerability, and to act as the repository of information on the resolution of the reported vulnerability. e-mail), including when it is thought 
possible that the system is under attack and report electronic forms could be read by unauthorized people, 
then alternative means of reporting should be used. 8.1 Actual 
(incident has occurred) 
 
8.2 Suspected 
(incident thought to have occurred but not 
confirmed) 
 
(One of) 
8.3 Natural disaster 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Earthquake 
 
Volcano 
 
Flood 
 
Violent wind 
 
Lightning 
 
Tsunami 
 
Collapse 
 
Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8.4 Social unrest 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Bedin 
    Terrorist assault 
    War 
    Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8. 10 Technical attack 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Network scanning 
        Exploitation of vulnerability 
        Exploitation of backdoor 
 
Login attempts, Interference 
        Denial of Service (DoS) 
        Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8.11 Breach of rule 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Unauthorized use of resources 
        Breach of copyright 
        Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8. 12 Compromise of functions 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Abuse of rights 
        Forging of rights, Denial of actions 
        Mis-operations 
 
Breach of personnel availability 
        Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8.13 Compromise of information 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Interception 
        Spying, Eavesdropping 
        Disclosure 
 
Masquerade, Vulnerability Number6 
 
 
 
3. INFORMATION SECURITY VULNERABILITY DESCRIPTION 
4.1 Date and Time the Vulnerability Reported 
 
4.2 Description in Narrative Terms of the Perceived 
Information Security Vulnerability: 
 
How Vulnerability Noticed 
 
Characteristics of Vulnerability – Physical, Technical, etc. INFORMATION SECURITY VULNERABILITY RESOLUTION 
5.1 Has Vulnerability been Confirmed? It presents the UK view on standards in Europe and at the international level. Tel: +44 (0)20 8996 7070
Email: copyright@bsigroup.com