 Preventive activities 
based on the results of risk assessments can lower the number of incidents, but not all incidents can be 
prevented. The attack vectors are: 
 External/Removable Media: An attack executed from removable media (e.g., flash drive, CD) or a 
peripheral device.  Other: An attack that does not fit into any of the other categories. A computer security incident is a violation or imminent threat of violation1 of computer security policies, 
acceptable use policies, or standard security practices. Software vendors may also provide information on known threats (e.g., new attacks) to help 
organizations understand the current threat environment. However, residual risk will inevitably persist 
after controls are implemented. Jump kits contain 
many of the same items listed in the bulleted lists above. For example, each jump kit typically includes a 
laptop, loaded with appropriate software (e.g., packet sniffers, digital forensics). Other important 
materials include backup devices, blank media, and basic networking equipment and cables. In addition to an investigative laptop, each incident handler should also 
have a standard laptop, smart phone, or other computing device for writing reports, reading email, and 
performing other duties unrelated to the hands-on incident analysis. Each risk should be prioritized, and the 
risks can be mitigated, transferred, or accepted until a reasonable overall level of risk is reached. Malware protection should be deployed at the host level (e.g., server and workstation 
operating systems), the application server level (e.g., email server, web proxies), and the application 
client level (e.g., email clients, instant messaging clients).30  
 User Awareness and Training. 25  
Guidelines on risk assessment are available in NIST SP 800-30, Guide for Conducting Risk Assessments, at 
http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/PubsSPs.html#800-30-Rev1.  Other: An attack that does not fit into any of the other categories. Examples of precursors are: 
 Web server log entries that show the usage of a vulnerability scanner 
 An announcement of a new exploit that targets a vulnerability of the organization’s mail server 
 A threat from a group stating that the group will attack the organization. If the file 
is altered and the checksum is recalculated, an extremely high probability exists that the new 
checksum will not match the old checksum. Organizations should require a baseline level of 
logging on all systems and a higher baseline level on critical systems. A network IDPS may detect that an attack was launched 
against a particular host, but it may not know if the attack was successful. Note that separate workstations should be used for research to minimize the risk to the 
organization from conducting these searches. If that person does not 
respond within a certain time, then the incident should be escalated again to a higher level of 
management. Performing an Internet search using the 
apparent source IP address of an attack may lead to more information on the attack—for example, a 
mailing list message regarding a similar attack. This data can be put back into the risk assessment process, ultimately 
leading to the selection and implementation of additional controls. Organizations should 
decide what incident data to collect based on reporting requirements and on the expected return on 
investment from the data (e.g., identifying a new threat and mitigating the related vulnerabilities before 
they can be exploited.) For example, if an 
attacker is able to use knowledge gathered in one attack to perform a more severe attack later, 
evidence from the first attack may be key to explaining how the second attack was accomplished.  Require a baseline level of logging and auditing on all systems, and a higher baseline level on all 
critical systems. The most important aspect of 
incident response coordination is information sharing, where different organizations share threat, attack, 
and vulnerability information with each other so that each organization’s knowledge benefits the other. Such information, at least at a summary level, is often reported to higher-
level coordinating incident response teams to communicate an estimate of the damage caused by the 
incident. This high-level information would alert the coordinating team 
that the member organization requires some level of additional resources to recover from the incident. What data sources might contain information regarding the identity of the vulnerability scanning 
host? How would the team identify who had been performing the vulnerability scans? How would the handling of this incident differ if the vulnerability scanning were directed at the 
organization’s most critical hosts? How would the handling of this incident differ if the vulnerability scanning were directed at 
external hosts? Incident: A violation or imminent threat of violation of computer security policies, acceptable use 
policies, or standard security practices. Threat: The potential source of an adverse event. Vulnerability: A weakness in a system, application, or network that is subject to exploitation or misuse. 1.1) 
 Added a mention of exercises (Section 3.1.1) 
 Revised the attack vectors (formerly incident categories) (Section 3.2.1) 
COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
70 
 Added SIEMs, network flows as common sources of precursors and indicators (Section 3.2.3) 
 Expanded discussion of eradication and recovery (Section 3.3.4) 
 Added a section on coordination and information sharing (Section 4) 
 Added a table of data exchange specifications applicable to incident handling (Appendix E)