 ATT&CK is just as much about the mindset and process of using it as much as it is the 
knowledge base itself. For example, Execution is defined as a tactic that 
represents (sub-)techniques that result in execution of adversary-controlled code on a local or 
remote system. There could be 
many ways of detecting a (sub-)technique but 
ATT&CK and MITRE do not endorse any particular 
vendor solution. Mitigation 
fields are populated on a (sub-)technique page when 
a mitigation object is associated to a 
(sub-)technique.. The relationship describes the 
details of how a specific mitigation can be applied to 
the (sub-)technique. Mitigation recommendations 
remain vendor agnostic, recommending the general 
method or capability class rather than a specific tool. Mitigation may not always be possible for a given 
(sub-)technique and is documented as such if no 
relationships to a given (sub-)technique are present. 3.4.3 Sub-Technique Details 
The addition of sub-techniques to ATT&CK in 2020 marked a significant shift to how behavior 
is described within the knowledge base. the Process Hollowing sub-technique can 
be used for Defense Evasion but not Privilege Escalation even though the Process Injection 
technique covers both tactics). It may contain dates of activity, suspected 
attribution details, targeted industries, and notable 
events that are attributed to the group’s activities. Is the "trigger" different 
between techniques that distinguishes them even though the result may be the same or 
similar? Are they similar to or 
different from other techniques that are either performed in the same way or have the 
same result? Some groups in ATT&CK have multiple names associated with related sets of activity due to 
various organizations tracking the same (or similar) set(s) of activities by different names. • There are several variations of process injection, but most follow a common sequence of 
an initial adversary controlled process requesting access to a non-malicious process, 
loading code within it, and forcing that process to execute the new code. • There are several variations within this core concept to include in the process injection 
entry which should be defined as sub-techniques under a process injection parent 
technique. • Process injection should be included as a technique under defense evasion and privilege 
escalation. Considerations: 
• SQLi may be performed to gain access to an externally facing web server in a DMZ or 
improperly positioned web server that would result in network compromise. • There are many methods on how SQLi may reach a database through various malformed 
data inputs and parameters. Database input or web logs can be used to look for common 
SQLi inputs that result in code execution. Still more domains could be researched, but given 
our criteria of basing the information in ATT&CK on in-the-wild use of techniques, oftentimes 
an application of the ATT&CK methodology does not mean that the result is an ATT&CK 
model. [17] The MITRE Corporation, "Process Injection," 18 July 2019. [Accessed 16 March 2020].