 Execution consists of techniques that result in adversary-controlled code running on a local or 
remote system. A user can manipulate access tokens 
to make a running process appear as though it is the child of a different process or belongs to 
someone other than the user that started the process. Activities may include the acquisition of malware, software (including 
licenses), exploits, certificates, and information relating to vulnerabilities. (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire)(Citation: Krebs-Anna)(Citation: Krebs-
Bazaar)(Citation: Krebs-Booter) 
  Parent Technique: T1583 
  Associated Tactics: TA0042 
 
T1584.005: Botnet 
  Description: Adversaries may compromise numerous third-party systems to form a botnet that 
can be used during targeting. A botnet is a network of compromised systems that can be 
instructed to perform coordinated tasks. (Citation: Norton Botnet) Instead of purchasing/renting a 
botnet from a booter/stresser service, adversaries may build their own botnet by compromising 
numerous third-party systems. (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire) Adversaries may also conduct 
a takeover of an existing botnet, such as redirecting bots to adversary-controlled C2 
servers. CDNs allow an organization to host content from a distributed, 
load balanced array of servers. CMSTP.exe can also be abused to [Bypass User Account 
Control](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1548/002) and execute arbitrary commands from a 
malicious INF through an auto-elevated COM interface. These credentials may then be abused to perform follow-on activities such as 
lateral movement or privilege escalation (Citation: Slack Security Risks). Hooking involves 
redirecting calls to these functions and can be implemented via: 
 
* **Hooks procedures**, which intercept and execute designated code in response to events 
such as messages, keystrokes, and mouse inputs. Cloud environments allow for 
collection and analysis of audit and application logs that provide insight into what activities a 
user does within the environment. If an adversary has sufficient permissions, they can disable or 
modify logging to avoid detection of their activities. Based on 
the application, this could result in privilege escalation and uninhibited network access. PowerShell is a powerful interactive command-line interface and scripting environment included 
in the Windows operating system. Process command-line arguments are stored in the process environment 
block (PEB), a data structure used by Windows to store various information about/used by a 
process. The PEB includes the process command-line arguments that are referenced when 
executing the process. When a process is created, defensive tools/sensors that monitor process 
creations may retrieve the process arguments from the PEB. It 
allows a user to log into an interactive session with a system desktop graphical user interface on 
a remote system. As a result, adversaries dramatically reduce the 
amount of effort needed to decrypt the protected information without the key. It allows a user to log into an 
interactive session with a system desktop graphical user interface on a remote system. (Citation: MalwareBytes SEO)(Citation: DFIR 
Report Gootloader) 
 
SEO poisoning may also be combined with evasive redirects and other cloaking mechanisms 
(such as measuring mouse movements or serving content based on browser user agents, user 
language/localization settings, or HTTP headers) in order to feed SEO inputs while avoiding 
scrutiny from defenders. Or, they may need to build extensive infrastructure if they want to test, 
communicate, and control other aspects of their activities on their own systems. This could result in escalation paths that allow 
adversaries to gain access to resources beyond what was originally intended. When the Terminal.app is opened, the application launches a zsh login shell 
and a zsh interactive shell. The interactive shell uses the <code>~/.zshrc</code> to configure the user environment. Adversaries may use also third party utilities, such as 7-Zip, WinRAR, and WinZip, to perform 
similar activities. This creates a grandchild process with no parent 
process that is immediately adopted by the `init` system process (PID 1), which successfully 
disconnects the execution of the adversary's payload from its previous process tree. Some installers may also require 
elevated privileges that will result in privilege escalation when executing adversary controlled 
code. Users 
can override notarization, which will result in a prompt of executing an “unauthorized app” and 
the security policy will be modified. Terminal 
Services allows servers to transmit a full, interactive, graphical user interface to clients via 
RDP. (Citation: 
Elastic Process Injection July 2017) 
 
This is very similar to [Process Hollowing](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1055/012) but 
targets an existing process rather than creating a process in a suspended state. VNC is a platform-
independent desktop sharing system that uses the RFB (“remote framebuffer”) protocol to 
enable users to remotely control another computer’s display by relaying the screen, mouse, and 
keyboard inputs over the network. Associated Tactics: TA0002