 If there are no clear procedures, there is a risk that investigation 
activities could be conducted in a reactive mode, by responding to incidents as they occur and 
overlooking what activities are needed. If there are bottlenecks in the information security incident management process, these should also be 
identifiable. 4) A definition of the scope of the ISIRT activities. iv) Reviewing, identifying and if possible, making improvements to the organization's existing 
information security risk assessment and management review results, as a result of the lessons 
learnt. Further, there should be documented procedures covering not just 
PoC and ISIRT activities, but those involved in information security forensic analysis and crisis activities – if 
not covered elsewhere, e.g. In this case the 
following should be addressed: 
a) 
the reporting process for the handling of such exceptions, 
b) 
guidance on the timing for getting approval from management in order to avoid any delay of response, 
and 
c) 
pre-authorized delegation of decision making without normal approval process. 5.7 Awareness and training 
Information security incident management is a process that involves not only technical means but also people. In some cases, it may be desirable for the organization to include awareness detail specifically about 
information security incident management in other training programs (for example, personnel orientation 
programs or general corporate security awareness programs). This awareness approach may provide 
valuable context relevant to particular groups of people, and improves training program effectiveness and 
efficiency. Before the information security incident management scheme becomes operational, the organization should 
ensure that all relevant personnel are familiar with the procedures involved in the detection and reporting of 
information security events, and selected personnel are very knowledgeable about the subsequent activities. This should be followed up by regular awareness briefings and training courses. Organizations should ensure that any changes made as a result of post 
testing reviews are subject to thorough checking, including further testing, before the changed scheme goes 
live. These phases and their 
associated activities were introduced in Clause 4.5. The 
organization should ensure that the appropriate personnel deal with reported information security 
vulnerabilities in a similar manner to how non-information security faults are handled, possibly with 
assessment and resolution using technical personnel (who may or may not be members of the ISIRT). Figure 3 shows all of the operational phases and related activities. This could be following the assessment activities described above in Clauses 7.2 
and 7.3, or during those activities if some major issue becomes evident early. d) 
Activity to review, identify and make improvements to the organization's existing information security risk 
assessment and management review results, as a result of the lessons learnt. c) 
Were any procedures or tools identified that would have been of assistance in the response process? e) 
Was the communication of the incident to all relevant parties effective throughout the detection, reporting 
and response process? Blended attacks may also result from 
the combined operations of a series of different malicious 
programs. 1 Result in financial losses/costs of x1 or less 
2 Result in financial losses/costs of between x1+1 and x2 
3 Result in financial losses/costs of between x2+1 and x3 
4 Result in financial losses/costs of between x3+1 and x4 
5 Result in financial losses/costs of between x4+1 and x5 
6 Result in financial losses/costs of between x5+1 and x6 
7 Result in financial losses/costs of between x6+1 and x7 
8 Result in financial losses/costs of between x7+1 and x8 
9 Result in financial losses/costs of more than x8 
10 The organization will go out of business 
where, xi (i = 1, 2, …, 8) represent the financial losses/costs in eight grades/levels which are determined by 
the organization in its context. These actions may result in fines and/or prison sentences. Given the potentially time-critical nature of this process, it is 
not essential to complete all fields in the reporting form at this time. Tel: +44 (0)20 8996 7070
Email: copyright@bsigroup.com