 Preventive activities 
based on the results of risk assessments can lower the number of incidents, but not all incidents can be 
prevented. This could overwhelm the resources and capacity for 
response, which would result in delayed or incomplete recovery and possibly more extensive damage and 
longer periods of service and data unavailability. However, the effectiveness of the process depends on the quality of the 
data that goes into it. 2.3.4.2 Law Enforcement 
One reason that many security-related incidents do not result in convictions is that some organizations do 
not properly contact law enforcement. Note that the organization typically should not contact 
multiple agencies because doing so might result in jurisdictional conflicts. Managers are 
ultimately responsible for ensuring that incident response activities are performed properly. The procedures should cover all the phases of the incident response 
process. These 
workstations typically contain a set of removable hard drives that can be used for evidence storage. The jump kit should be ready to go at all times. Jump kits contain 
many of the same items listed in the bulleted lists above. For example, each jump kit typically includes a 
laptop, loaded with appropriate software (e.g., packet sniffers, digital forensics). Other important 
materials include backup devices, blank media, and basic networking equipment and cables. In addition to an investigative laptop, each incident handler should also 
have a standard laptop, smart phone, or other computing device for writing reports, reading email, and 
performing other duties unrelated to the hands-on incident analysis. The initial analysis should provide enough information for the team to prioritize subsequent activities, 
such as containment of the incident and deeper analysis of the effects of the incident. Incidents should not be handled on a first-come, first-served basis as a result of resource 
limitations. This process should be repeated until someone responds. As a result of the failure, the 
malicious process may overwrite or encrypt all the data on the host’s hard drive. The following items describe the most commonly performed activities for attacking host identification: 
 Validating the Attacking Host’s IP Address. If incident data is collected and stored properly, it 
should provide several measures of the success (or at least the activities) of the incident response team. Organizations should ensure that they effectively coordinate 
portions of their incident response activities with appropriate partners.  Attempt to automate as much of the information sharing process as possible. What personnel would 
be involved in the analysis and validation process? org/  
CEE  
Common Event Expression  
http://cee.mitre.org/  
CPE  
Common Platform Enumeration  
http://cpe.mitre.org/  
CVE  
Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures  
http://cve.mitre.org/  
CVSS  
Common Vulnerability Scoring System  
http://www.first.org/cvss/cvss-guide  
CWE  
Common Weakness Enumeration  
http://cwe.mitre.org/  
CybOX 
Cyber Observable eXpression 
http://cybox.mitre.org/  
MAEC  
Malware Attribute Enumeration and 
Characterization  
http://maec.mitre.org/  
OCIL  
Open Checklist Interactive Language  
http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/ PubsNISTIRs. Different reporting methods 
may be preferable as a result of variations in the skills of the person reporting the activity, the 
urgency of the incident, and the sensitivity of the incident. This report should detail the incident handling process. 1.1) 
 Added a mention of exercises (Section 3.1.1) 
 Revised the attack vectors (formerly incident categories) (Section 3.2.1) 
COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
70 
 Added SIEMs, network flows as common sources of precursors and indicators (Section 3.2.3) 
 Expanded discussion of eradication and recovery (Section 3.3.4) 
 Added a section on coordination and information sharing (Section 4) 
 Added a table of data exchange specifications applicable to incident handling (Appendix E)