 For example, you can find their  
list of attacks for Regsvr32, including Squiblydoo. Of course, if you’re already doing red  
teaming, feel free to run the attacks you know yourself (on systems where you have  
permission!) and try to develop analytics for those! Bonus Level 0 Content: Really want to create your own analytics and run your own attacks  
but don’t have your own network? Adversary emulators construct a scenario to test certain aspects of an adversary’s tactics, 
techniques, and procedures (TTPs). Since ATT&CK is a large knowledge base of real-world adversary behaviors, it doesn’t take much  
imagination to draw a connection between adversary or red team behaviors and ATT&CK. But how do you know if you’d really detect that technique? It allows the operator to pick one technique or chain many together when  
building the test, which allows you to start to automate sequences of behaviors for your  
testing rather than manually executing single Atomic Tests. PROCESS FOR CREATING AN ADVERSARY EMULATION PLAN 
| 26 | 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Adversary Emulation and Red Teaming | Blake Strom, Tim Schulz, and Katie Nickels 
1. Gather threat intel—Select an adversary based on the threats to your organization 
and work with the CTI team to analyze intelligence about what the adversary has 
done. Instead, start small: select a single technique to focus on, determine your coverage 
for that technique, and then make the appropriate engineering enhancements to start 
detecting it. Tip: Not sure which technique to start with? Once you have a technique picked out, you’ll want to figure out what your coverage 
of that technique is. Oftentimes you’ll need to bring in other 
information about the technique, which you can get from the technique’s ATT&CK page 
or an external source. These describe the procedures, or specific ways, an adversary  
has used a technique. Oftentimes they represent variations of a technique that may or  
may not be covered by existing analytics and should also be factored into a confidence  
assessment in how well you cover a technique. | 40 | 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
Blake Strom is the capability area lead for adversary emulation at MITRE 
and has worked in the areas of network defense, cyber threat intelligence, 
security research, and adversary emulation. | 41 | 
|  Solving Problems for a Safer World