 Native operating system tools are often used toward this post-compromise 
information-gathering objective. Following through on their primary objective often requires exploring the 
network to find their target and subsequently gaining access to it. Reaching their objective often 
involves pivoting through multiple systems and accounts to gain. For example, an adversary may modify the entry point of a binary 
to point to malicious code patched in by the adversary before resuming normal execution 
flow. Instead of buying, leasing, or renting infrastructure an 
adversary may compromise infrastructure and use it during other phases of the adversary 
lifecycle. An adversary can send an attachment to a user 
through spearphishing that contains a resource link to an external server controlled by the 
adversary (i.e. Various artifacts may be created by an 
adversary or something that can be attributed to an adversary’s actions. Associated Tactics: TA0007 
 
T1108: Redundant Access 
  Description: **This technique has been deprecated. **This technique has been deprecated and 
should no longer be used. The file executed with this 
technique does not need to be marked executable beforehand. (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire)(Citation: Krebs-Anna)(Citation: Krebs-
Bazaar)(Citation: Krebs-Booter) 
  Parent Technique: T1583 
  Associated Tactics: TA0042 
 
T1584.005: Botnet 
  Description: Adversaries may compromise numerous third-party systems to form a botnet that 
can be used during targeting. A botnet is a network of compromised systems that can be 
instructed to perform coordinated tasks. (Citation: Norton Botnet) Instead of purchasing/renting a 
botnet from a booter/stresser service, adversaries may build their own botnet by compromising 
numerous third-party systems. (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire) Adversaries may also conduct 
a takeover of an existing botnet, such as redirecting bots to adversary-controlled C2 
servers. CMSTP.exe can also be abused to [Bypass User Account 
Control](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1548/002) and execute arbitrary commands from a 
malicious INF through an auto-elevated COM interface. This can result 
in significantly furthering an adversary's objective in cases where credentials gained from web 
browsers overlap with privileged accounts (e.g. (Citation: LaunchDaemon Hijacking)(Citation: 
sentinelone macos persist Jun 2019) 
  Parent Technique: T1543 
  Associated Tactics: TA0003, TA0004 
 
T1053.004: Launchd 
  Description: This technique is deprecated due to the inaccurate usage. When the technique is performed on the running operating system in memory and not on the 
stored copy, this technique will not survive across reboots. (Citation: polymorphic-blackberry) With each 
execution of the software, the code is mutated into a different version of itself that achieves the 
same purpose or objective as the original. An adversary who has raw access to the boot 
drive may overwrite this area, diverting execution during startup from the normal boot loader to 
adversary code. For example, if an adversary has a username and password but 
the user is not logged onto the system the adversary can then create a logon session for the 
user using the `LogonUser` function. Another variation of this technique is to utilize temporary storage attached to the compute 
instance. This flood relies on raw volume to accomplish the objective, exhausting any of 
the various resources required by the victim software to provide the service. Associated Tactics: TA0002