 From a business perspective, the prime objective is to avoid or contain the impact of 
information security incidents to reduce the direct and indirect costs caused by the incidents. It is re-iterated that another objective associated with this International Standard is to provide guidance to 
organizations that aim to meet the requirements specified in ISO/IEC 27001 (and thus supported by guidance 
from ISO/IEC 27002). In some cases, it may be desirable for the organization to include awareness detail specifically about 
information security incident management in other training programs (for example, personnel orientation 
programs or general corporate security awareness programs). This awareness approach may provide 
valuable context relevant to particular groups of people, and improves training program effectiveness and 
efficiency. Before the information security incident management scheme becomes operational, the organization should 
ensure that all relevant personnel are familiar with the procedures involved in the detection and reporting of 
information security events, and selected personnel are very knowledgeable about the subsequent activities. This should be followed up by regular awareness briefings and training courses. BS ISO/IEC 27035:2011
ISO/IEC 27035:2011(E) 
22 
© ISO/IEC 2011 – All rights reserved
 
5.8 Scheme testing 
The organization should schedule regular checking and testing of the information security incident 
management processes and procedures to highlight potential flaws and problems that may arise during the 
management of information security events and incidents and vulnerabilities. The 
organization should ensure that the appropriate personnel deal with reported information security 
vulnerabilities in a similar manner to how non-information security faults are handled, possibly with 
assessment and resolution using technical personnel (who may or may not be members of the ISIRT). The organization should determine for each asset, based 
upon the results of the information security risk assessment, its acceptable interruption window that supports 
the recovery time objective before resumption of the service or the access of the information. BS ISO/IEC 27035:2011
ISO/IEC 27035:2011(E) 
© ISO/IEC 2011 – All rights reserved 
45
 
ISO/IEC 27001:2005 Clause 
ISO/IEC 27035 Clause 
A.13.1 Reporting information security events and 
vulnerabilities 
Objective: To ensure information security events and 
vulnerabilities associated with information systems are 
communicated in a manner allowing timely corrective 
action to be taken. A.13.2 Management of information security incidents 
and improvements 
Objective: To ensure a consistent and effective approach 
is applied to the management of information security 
incidents. Tel: +44 (0)20 8996 7070
Email: copyright@bsigroup.com