 The jump kit should be ready to go at all times. Jump kits contain 
many of the same items listed in the bulleted lists above. For example, each jump kit typically includes a 
laptop, loaded with appropriate software (e.g., packet sniffers, digital forensics). Other important 
materials include backup devices, blank media, and basic networking equipment and cables. Note that because this laptop is special purpose, 
it is likely to use software other than the standard enterprise tools and configurations, and whenever 
possible the incident handlers should be allowed to specify basic technical requirements for these special-
purpose investigative laptops. In addition to an investigative laptop, each incident handler should also 
have a standard laptop, smart phone, or other computing device for writing reports, reading email, and 
performing other duties unrelated to the hands-on incident analysis. Exercises involving simulated incidents can also be very useful for preparing staff for incident handling; 
see NIST SP 800-84 for more information on exercises23 and Appendix A for sample exercise scenarios. Follow-up reports should be kept for a period of time as 
specified in record retention policies.45 
3.4.2 Using Collected Incident Data 
Lessons learned activities should produce a set of objective and subjective data regarding each incident.  Objective Assessment of Each Incident. The following are examples of performing an objective 
assessment of an incident: 
– Reviewing logs, forms, reports, and other incident documentation for adherence to established 
incident response policies and procedures 
– Identifying which precursors and indicators of the incident were recorded to determine how 
effectively the incident was logged and identified 
– Determining if the incident caused damage before it was detected 
                                                      
46  
Metrics such as the number of incidents handled are generally not of value in a comparison of multiple organizations 
because each organization is likely to have defined key terms differently. The information most frequently shared in team-to-
team relationships is tactical and technical (e.g., 
technical indicators of compromise, suggested 
remediation actions) but may also include other 
types of information (plans, procedures, lessons 
learned) if conducted as part of the Preparation 
phase. Teams and coordinating teams frequently share 
tactical, technical information as well as information 
regarding threats, vulnerabilities, and risks to the 
community served by the coordinating team. The type of information shared by coordinating 
teams with their counterparts often consists of 
periodical summaries during “steady state” 
operations, punctuated by the exchange of tactical, 
technical details, response plans, and impact or risk 
assessment information during coordinated incident 
response activities. 1.1) 
 Added a mention of exercises (Section 3.1.1) 
 Revised the attack vectors (formerly incident categories) (Section 3.2.1) 
COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
70 
 Added SIEMs, network flows as common sources of precursors and indicators (Section 3.2.3) 
 Expanded discussion of eradication and recovery (Section 3.3.4) 
 Added a section on coordination and information sharing (Section 4) 
 Added a table of data exchange specifications applicable to incident handling (Appendix E)