 If ipconfig.exe is frequently and legitimately used then notifying an 
analyst with an alert on each instance as potential intrusion behavior would be excessive. The ATT&CK Model 
The basis of ATT&CK is the set of techniques and sub-techniques that represent actions that 
adversaries can perform to accomplish objectives. Those objectives are represented by the tactic 
categories the techniques and sub-techniques fall under. 3.2 Technology Domains 
ATT&CK is organized in a series of “technology domains” - the ecosystem an adversary 
operates within that provides a set of constraints the adversary must circumvent or take 
advantage of to accomplish a set of objectives. Additional tactic categories may be defined as needed to more accurately describe adversary 
objectives. There may be many ways, or techniques, to achieve tactical objectives, so there are multiple 
techniques in each tactic category. *Only 
applies to techniques and not sub-techniques  
Tactic* 
Tag 
The tactic objectives that the (sub-)technique can be 
used to accomplish. There could be 
many ways of detecting a (sub-)technique but 
ATT&CK and MITRE do not endorse any particular 
vendor solution. Detection recommendations should 
therefore remain vendor agnostic, recommending 
the general method and class of tools rather than a 
specific tool. Mitigation 
fields are populated on a (sub-)technique page when 
a mitigation object is associated to a 
(sub-)technique.. The relationship describes the 
details of how a specific mitigation can be applied to 
the (sub-)technique. Mitigation recommendations 
remain vendor agnostic, recommending the general 
method or capability class rather than a specific tool. Mitigation may not always be possible for a given 
(sub-)technique and is documented as such if no 
relationships to a given (sub-)technique are present. Groups are defined as 
named intrusion sets, threat groups, actor groups, or campaigns that typically represent targeted, 
persistent threat activity. It may contain dates of activity, suspected 
attribution details, targeted industries, and notable 
events that are attributed to the group’s activities. Some groups in ATT&CK have multiple names associated with related sets of activity due to 
various organizations tracking the same (or similar) set(s) of activities by different names. Adoption of ATT&CK is widespread across multiple disciplines, including intrusion detection, 
threat hunting, security engineering, threat intelligence, red teaming, and risk management. [6]  C. Betz, S. Caltagirone and A. Pendergast, "The Diamond Model of Intrusion Analysis," 
2013. [Accessed 16 March 2020].