 Adversaries can often enter and explore a network with unprivileged 
access but require elevated permissions to follow through on their objectives. The type of modification and the impact it will have depends on the target application and 
process as well as the goals and objectives of the adversary. Reasons for 
[Defacement](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1491) include delivering messaging, 
intimidation, or claiming (possibly false) credit for an intrusion. This kind of targeted campaign is often referred to a 
strategic web compromise or watering hole attack. Guardrails ensure that a payload only executes against an intended target and 
reduces collateral damage from an adversary’s campaign. Removal of these indicators may interfere with event collection, reporting, or other processes 
used to detect intrusion activity. Internal spearphishing is multi-staged 
campaign where a legitimate account is initially compromised either by controlling the user's 
device or by compromising the account credentials of the user. Activities may include the acquisition of malware, software (including 
licenses), exploits, certificates, and information relating to vulnerabilities. Phishing for information is an attempt to trick targets into divulging 
information, frequently credentials or other actionable information. (Citation: CoinLoader: A 
Sophisticated Malware Loader Campaign) 
 
Aware that some malware cannot survive system reboots, adversaries may entirely delete files 
used to invoke system shut down or reboot. Stopping critical services or processes can inhibit or stop 
response to an incident or aid in the adversary's overall objectives to cause damage to the 
environment. Cookies are often valid for an extended period of time, even if the web application is not actively 
used. Additionally, other applications on the targets machine might store 
sensitive authentication cookies in memory (e.g. (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire)(Citation: Krebs-Anna)(Citation: Krebs-
Bazaar)(Citation: Krebs-Booter) 
  Parent Technique: T1583 
  Associated Tactics: TA0042 
 
T1584.005: Botnet 
  Description: Adversaries may compromise numerous third-party systems to form a botnet that 
can be used during targeting. A botnet is a network of compromised systems that can be 
instructed to perform coordinated tasks. (Citation: Norton Botnet) Instead of purchasing/renting a 
botnet from a booter/stresser service, adversaries may build their own botnet by compromising 
numerous third-party systems. (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire) Adversaries may also conduct 
a takeover of an existing botnet, such as redirecting bots to adversary-controlled C2 
servers. CMSTP.exe can also be abused to [Bypass User Account 
Control](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1548/002) and execute arbitrary commands from a 
malicious INF through an auto-elevated COM interface. These credentials may then be abused to perform follow-on activities such as 
lateral movement or privilege escalation (Citation: Slack Security Risks). Cloud environments allow for 
collection and analysis of audit and application logs that provide insight into what activities a 
user does within the environment. If an adversary has sufficient permissions, they can disable or 
modify logging to avoid detection of their activities. Removal of these files can occur during an 
intrusion, or as part of a post-intrusion process to minimize the adversary's footprint. Files and folders that start with a period, ‘.’, are by default hidden from being viewed 
in the Finder application and standard command-line utilities like “ls”. Since 
internally defacing systems exposes an adversary's presence, it often takes place after other 
intrusion goals have been accomplished. Use 
of the RTLO character has been seen in many targeted intrusion attempts and criminal 
activity. Or, they may need to build extensive infrastructure if they want to test, 
communicate, and control other aspects of their activities on their own systems. The type of 
modification and the impact it will have depends on the target transmission mechanism as well 
as the goals and objectives of the adversary. Cookies are often valid for an extended period of time, 
even if the web application is not actively used. Adversaries may use also third party utilities, such as 7-Zip, WinRAR, and WinZip, to perform 
similar activities. Many DGAs are time-based, generating a different domain for each time period (hourly, daily, 
monthly, etc). This kind of targeted 
campaign is referred to a strategic web compromise or watering hole attack. Adversaries can use a compromised email account to hijack existing email threads with targets 
of interest. Encrypting and/or encoding file content aims to conceal 
malicious artifacts within a file used in an intrusion. Cloud storage buckets often allow users to set lifecycle policies to automate the migration, 
archival, or deletion of objects after a set period of time. The type of 
modification and the impact it will have depends on the target application and process as well as 
the goals and objectives of the adversary. Once a persona has been developed an adversary can use it to create connections to targets of 
interest. Spearphishing for information is an 
attempt to trick targets into divulging information, frequently credentials or other actionable 
information. (Citation: 
QR-campaign-energy-firm) By using a QR code, the URL may not be exposed in the email and 
may thus go undetected by most automated email security scans. Spearphishing for information is an attempt to trick targets into 
divulging information, frequently credentials or other actionable information. The type of modification and the impact it will have depends on the 
type of data as well as the goals and objectives of the adversary. This is because 
<code>sudo</code> has the ability to cache credentials for a period of time. Associated Tactics: TA0002