 Preventive activities 
based on the results of risk assessments can lower the number of incidents, but not all incidents can be 
prevented. However, most policies 
include the same key elements: 
 Statement of management commitment 
 Purpose and objectives of the policy 
                                                      
3  
http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/circulars/a130/a130trans4.html 
4  
http://csrc.nist.gov/drivers/documents/FISMA-final.pdf  
5  
http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/PubsFIPS.html  
6  
http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/memoranda/fy2007/m07-16. However, technical staff members within the 
organization usually have much better knowledge of the organization’s environment than an 
outsourcer would, which can be beneficial in identifying false positives associated with organization-
specific behavior and the criticality of targets. Managers are 
ultimately responsible for ensuring that incident response activities are performed properly. The following are examples of other services a team might offer: 
 Intrusion Detection. The first tier of an incident response team often assumes responsibility for 
intrusion detection.17 The team generally benefits because it should be poised to analyze incidents 
more quickly and accurately, based on the knowledge it gains of intrusion detection technologies. Examples include monitoring intrusion detection 
sensors, distributing security advisories, and educating users on security. The jump kit should be ready to go at all times. Jump kits contain 
many of the same items listed in the bulleted lists above. For example, each jump kit typically includes a 
laptop, loaded with appropriate software (e.g., packet sniffers, digital forensics). Other important 
materials include backup devices, blank media, and basic networking equipment and cables. In addition to an investigative laptop, each incident handler should also 
have a standard laptop, smart phone, or other computing device for writing reports, reading email, and 
performing other duties unrelated to the hands-on incident analysis. Exercises involving simulated incidents can also be very useful for preparing staff for incident handling; 
see NIST SP 800-84 for more information on exercises23 and Appendix A for sample exercise scenarios. Examples of precursors are: 
 Web server log entries that show the usage of a vulnerability scanner 
 An announcement of a new exploit that targets a vulnerability of the organization’s mail server 
 A threat from a group stating that the group will attack the organization. 31  
See NIST SP 800-94, Guide to Intrusion Detection and Prevention Systems, for additional information on IDPS products. Intrusion detection systems may produce false positives—
incorrect indicators. The initial analysis should provide enough information for the team to prioritize subsequent activities, 
such as containment of the incident and deeper analysis of the effects of the incident. The following items describe the most commonly performed activities for attacking host identification: 
 Validating the Attacking Host’s IP Address. Follow-up reports should be kept for a period of time as 
specified in record retention policies.45 
3.4.2 Using Collected Incident Data 
Lessons learned activities should produce a set of objective and subjective data regarding each incident. If incident data is collected and stored properly, it 
should provide several measures of the success (or at least the activities) of the incident response team. Organizations should ensure that they effectively coordinate 
portions of their incident response activities with appropriate partners. The intrusion detection analyst determines that the connection is being made 
to the organization’s VPN server and contacts the incident response team. 1.1) 
 Added a mention of exercises (Section 3.1.1) 
 Revised the attack vectors (formerly incident categories) (Section 3.2.1) 
COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
70 
 Added SIEMs, network flows as common sources of precursors and indicators (Section 3.2.3) 
 Expanded discussion of eradication and recovery (Section 3.3.4) 
 Added a section on coordination and information sharing (Section 4) 
 Added a table of data exchange specifications applicable to incident handling (Appendix E)