 If you have a report about an incident your 
organization has worked, this can be a great internal source to map to ATT&CK, or you 
could use an external report like a blog post. Taking the above process, you can  
map both internal and external information to ATT&CK, including incident response data,  
reports from OSINT or threat intel subscriptions, real-time alerts, and your organization’s  
historic information. Rather than identifying things that are known to be bad and blocking them, ATT&CK-
based analytics involve collecting log and event data about the things happening on your systems 
and using that to identify the suspicious behaviors described in ATT&CK.  Windows 
Event Logs, and many EDR platforms 
Square File and registry monitoring, also often collected by Sysmon, Windows Event Logs, 
and many EDR platforms 
Square Authentication logs, such as those collected from the domain controller via Windows 
Event Logs 
Square Packet capture, especially east/west capture such as that collected between hosts 
and enclaves in your network by sensors such as Zeek 
Once you know what data you have, you’ll need to collect that data into some kind 
of search platform (Security Information and Event Management or SIEM) so you 
can run analytics against it. For example, you can find their  
list of attacks for Regsvr32, including Squiblydoo. Of course, if you’re already doing red  
teaming, feel free to run the attacks you know yourself (on systems where you have  
permission!) and try to develop analytics for those! Bonus Level 0 Content: Really want to create your own analytics and run your own attacks  
but don’t have your own network? At this stage, you’re looking for things that make this malicious event look distinctive. A general pattern to follow is to write the search to detect malicious behavior, revise it to  
filter out false positives, make sure it still detects the malicious behavior, and then repeat  
to reduce other sorts of false positives. ANALYTIC DEVELOPMENT WORKFLOW 
| 15 | 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Detection and Analytics | John Wunder 
LEVEL 3 
Feel confident that you’re cranking out quality analytics to detect attacks from Atomic  
Red Team? Test that confidence and improve your defenses by doing some purple  
teaming! It allows the operator to pick one technique or chain many together when  
building the test, which allows you to start to automate sequences of behaviors for your  
testing rather than manually executing single Atomic Tests. SEARCH FUNCTION ON HTTPS://ATTACK.MITRE.ORG 
Another helpful resource to get you started mapping red team procedures to ATT&CK is  
the APT3 Adversary Emulation Field Manual, which breaks out command-by-command  
actions that APT3 has used, all mapped to ATT&CK. We want to make sure we’re not just doing the techniques because our tool can perform  
them—we want to emulate a real adversary we care about to provide more value. LEVEL 3 
By this point, your red team is integrating ATT&CK into operations and finding value in 
communicating back to the blue team. To advance your teams and the impact they’re 
having even more, you can collaborate with your organization’s CTI team to tailor 
engagements toward a specific adversary using data they collect by creating your own 
adversary emulation plan. There is a much higher level of impact when visibility and control gaps are exposed by  
security testing when you can show a high likelihood that they have been leveraged by a  
known adversary. Tip: A frequently cited data source is Windows Event Logs, which provide visibility into 
many ATT&CK techniques. A good resource for getting started with event logs is Malware 
Archaeology’s Windows ATT&CK Logging Cheat Sheet, which maps Windows events to the 
techniques you could detect with them. As an example, you might have an analytic that looks at a specific  
Windows event; to determine this analytic’s coverage, you can look up the event ID in  
the Windows ATT&CK Logging Cheat Sheet or a similar repository. A good way to identify how you’re mitigating techniques is to go through each of 
your SOC’s policies, preventative tools, and security controls, then map them to the 
ATT&CK technique(s) they may impact, and then add those techniques to your heatmap 
of coverage. Tip: If you’re particularly well-resourced, you can stand up a representative test  
environment to test the tool live, recording where it did well and where it didn’t do so well,  
and how adding it would impact your existing coverage. Tip: Always weigh the potential loss of visibility when investigating removing detections  
in favor of mitigations. Katie has worked in network defense, incident response, and 
cyber threat intelligence for nearly a decade. | 41 | 
|  Solving Problems for a Safer World