 TA0040: Impact 
  Description: The adversary is trying to manipulate, interrupt, or destroy your systems and data. Techniques used for impact can include 
destroying or tampering with data. In Linux, the <code>passwd</code> utility may be used to 
change passwords. Both compression and encryption are done prior to exfiltration, and can be performed using a 
utility, 3rd party library, or custom method. Similarly, adversaries may 
modify existing services, daemons, or agents to achieve the same effect. In cloud environments, adversaries may leverage access to delete cloud storage objects, 
machine images, database instances, and other infrastructure crucial to operations to damage 
an organization or their customers. The type of modification and the impact it will have depends on the target application and 
process as well as the goals and objectives of the adversary. Emails may also contain details of ongoing incident response operations, which 
may allow adversaries to adjust their techniques in order to maintain persistence or evade 
defenses. After gaining access to a victim system, 
adversaries may create/modify event triggers to point to malicious content that will be executed 
whenever the event trigger is invoked. Guardrails ensure that a payload only executes against an intended target and 
reduces collateral damage from an adversary’s campaign. (Citation: FBI-BEC) This creates the potential for multiple victims 
(i.e., compromised accounts as well as the ultimate monetary loss) in incidents involving 
financial theft. This activity may also impede forensic analysis and 
incident response, due to lack of sufficient data to determine what occurred. Previously, there were two headers to achieve this same 
effect: LC_THREAD and LC_UNIXTHREAD  (Citation: Prolific OSX Malware History). In addition to gaining a better understanding of the environment, adversaries may also monitor 
logs in real time to track incident response procedures. This can either be done live in memory during system runtime for 
immediate effect, or in storage to implement the change on the next boot of the network device. (Citation: Trend Micro APT Attack Tools) Adversaries use these 
types of proxies to manage command and control communications, reduce the number of 
simultaneous outbound network connections, provide resiliency in the face of connection loss, 
or to ride over existing trusted communications paths between victims to avoid suspicion. Stopping critical services or processes can inhibit or stop 
response to an incident or aid in the adversary's overall objectives to cause damage to the 
environment. The access may be 
used to laterally move to other systems, gather information, or cause a specific effect, such as 
wiping the hard drives on all endpoints. On Windows, the built-in <code>klist</code> utility can be used to list and analyze cached 
Kerberos tickets. The value stored in the Registry key will be executed after a user 
logs into the computer. This value will serve as the program that will be 
executed when a user logs into the computer. Bash keeps track of the commands users type on the command-
line with the "history" utility. With a botnet at their disposal, 
adversaries may perform follow-on activity such as large-scale 
[Phishing](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1566) or Distributed Denial of Service 
(DDoS). (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire)(Citation: Krebs-Anna)(Citation: Krebs-
Bazaar)(Citation: Krebs-Booter) 
  Parent Technique: T1583 
  Associated Tactics: TA0042 
 
T1584.005: Botnet 
  Description: Adversaries may compromise numerous third-party systems to form a botnet that 
can be used during targeting. A botnet is a network of compromised systems that can be 
instructed to perform coordinated tasks. (Citation: Norton Botnet) Instead of purchasing/renting a 
botnet from a booter/stresser service, adversaries may build their own botnet by compromising 
numerous third-party systems. (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire) Adversaries may also conduct 
a takeover of an existing botnet, such as redirecting bots to adversary-controlled C2 
servers. CDNs allow an organization to host content from a distributed, 
load balanced array of servers. CMSTP.exe can also be abused to [Bypass User Account 
Control](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1548/002) and execute arbitrary commands from a 
malicious INF through an auto-elevated COM interface. (Citation: Kaspersky Gauss 
Whitepaper)(Citation: Ebowla: Genetic Malware) These difficulties can slow down the incident 
response process and help adversaries hide their tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs). This could include maliciously redirecting(Citation: 
Microsoft Lamin Sept 2017) or even disabling host-based sensors, such as Event Tracing for 
Windows (ETW)(Citation: Microsoft About Event Tracing 2018), by tampering settings that 
control the collection and flow of event telemetry. This action does not 
require a system reboot and takes effect immediately. (Citation: Trend 
Micro APT Attack Tools) Adversaries use internal proxies to manage command and control 
communications inside a compromised environment, to reduce the number of simultaneous 
outbound network connections, to provide resiliency in the face of connection loss, or to ride 
over existing trusted communications paths between infected systems to avoid suspicion. Commands such as <code>net localgroup</code> of the 
[Net](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0039) utility, <code>dscl . It contains functionality to add 
helper DLLs for extending functionality of the utility. Adversaries can add other programs or processes to this registry value which will automatically 
launch at boot. Security reporting messages are important for 
monitoring the normal operation of a system and identifying important events that can signal a 
security incident. The type of 
modification and the impact it will have depends on the target transmission mechanism as well 
as the goals and objectives of the adversary. (Citation: Unit 42 Leaked Environment Variables 2024) 
 
In addition to incurring potential financial costs or availability disruptions, this technique may 
cause reputational damage if a victim’s bandwidth is used for illegal activities. Associated Tactics: TA0005 
 
T1070.001: Clear Windows Event Logs 
  Description: Adversaries may clear Windows Event Logs to hide the activity of an intrusion. Windows Event Logs are a record of a computer's alerts and notifications. Applications often 
depend on external software to function properly. Adversaries can set environment variables via the command line using the 
<code>export</code> command, <code>setenv</code> function, or <code>putenv</code> 
function. (Citation: 
Trend Micro APT Attack Tools) Adversaries use these types of proxies to manage command 
and control communications, to provide resiliency in the face of connection loss, or to ride over 
existing trusted communications paths to avoid suspicion. (Citation: Microsoft GetWindowLong function) (Citation: Microsoft SetWindowLong 
function) 
 
Although small, the EWM is large enough to store a 32-bit pointer and is often used to point to a 
windows procedure. Once the tampered function is invoked, the malicious payload will be 
triggered. (Citation: LogonUserW function) The function will return a 
copy of the new session's access token and the adversary can use `SetThreadToken` to assign 
the token to a thread. Any potential changes cannot take effect until every registered filter 
acknowledges validation. The type of 
modification and the impact it will have depends on the target application and process as well as 
the goals and objectives of the adversary. This 
value can be changed using the <code>AccessTokenLifetime</code> in a 
<code>LifetimeTokenPolicy</code>. The Windows security identifier (SID) is a unique value that identifies a user or 
group account. Similar to hijacking SIP’s CryptSIPDllVerifyIndirectData function, this value 
can be redirected to a suitable exported function from an already present DLL or a maliciously-
crafted DLL (though the implementation of a trust provider is complex). Specifically, an adversary may hide a task from 
`schtasks /query` and the Task Scheduler by deleting the associated Security Descriptor (SD) 
registry value (where deletion of this value must be completed using SYSTEM 
permissions). The type of modification and the impact it will have depends on the 
type of data as well as the goals and objectives of the adversary. WMI can be used to install event filters, providers, consumers, and bindings that 
execute code when a defined event occurs. (Citation: Mandiant M-Trends 2015) 
 
Adversaries may use the capabilities of WMI to subscribe to an event and execute arbitrary 
code when that event occurs, providing persistence on a system. Associated Tactics: TA0002