 The occurrence of an information security event does not necessarily mean that an attempt has been 
successful or that there are any implications on confidentiality, integrity and/or availability, i.e. These impacts can 
include immediate financial loss and longer-term loss arising from damaged reputation and credibility (for 
guidance on business impact analysis, see ISO/IEC 27005:2008). The data collected on the adverse impacts on business operations from information security incidents will 
be useful in the business impact analysis. The data collected to identify the occurrence frequency of the 
various threat types will greatly aid the quality of the threat assessment. Their consequences may include the disclosure, modification, 
destruction, or unavailability of information in an unauthorized manner, or the damage or theft of 
organizational assets. 2) The information security event/incident/vulnerability forms: 
i) 
completed by the person reporting an information security event (i.e. The information security incident management 
scheme comes into effect whenever an information security event is detected, or an information security 
vulnerability is reported. The function of the ISIRT should also be independently audited to confirm that all business 
requirements are being satisfied effectively. An ISIRT contributes to the reduction in physical and monetary 
damage, as well as the reduction of the damage to the organization's reputation that is sometimes associated 
with information security incidents. An attacked information system, service or network may not function correctly. Some of these factors relate to making sure that users are aware of the value of information security 
incident management and being motivated to report incidents. In some cases, it may be desirable for the organization to include awareness detail specifically about 
information security incident management in other training programs (for example, personnel orientation 
programs or general corporate security awareness programs). This awareness approach may provide 
valuable context relevant to particular groups of people, and improves training program effectiveness and 
efficiency. Before the information security incident management scheme becomes operational, the organization should 
ensure that all relevant personnel are familiar with the procedures involved in the detection and reporting of 
information security events, and selected personnel are very knowledgeable about the subsequent activities. This should be followed up by regular awareness briefings and training courses. 6 
Detection and reporting phase 
6.1 Overview of key activities 
The first phase of the operational use of an information security incident management scheme involves the 
detecting of, collecting information associated with, and reporting on occurrences of information security 
events and existence of information security vulnerabilities by human or automatic means. The 
organization should ensure that the appropriate personnel deal with reported information security 
vulnerabilities in a similar manner to how non-information security faults are handled, possibly with 
assessment and resolution using technical personnel (who may or may not be members of the ISIRT). Example guidelines are given in Annex C. Example categories are the 
following: 
a) 
financial loss/disruption to business operations, 
b) 
commercial and economic interests, 
c) 
personal information, 
d) 
legal and regulatory obligations, 
e) 
management and business operations, 
f) 
loss of goodwill, 
g) 
injury or loss of life, and 
h) 
societal disruption. controls to be adopted to prevent re-occurrence or similar 
occurrences). An information security incident should be correlated to any other event/incident reported to the ISIRT. This 
important activity is to verify if the incident is connected to any other event/incident or it is simply the effect of 
another incident, i.e. If the incident causes severe negative impact on 
the business, crisis activities should be initiated. 2) Activity to instigate crisis activities through escalation to crisis handling function, if it is not under 
control or it is going to have a severe impact on the organization's core services (See also 
Clause 8.2.4). Crisis handling function then is responsible of the incident, with full support of the ISIRT 
(including such as activating a crisis management plan), and involving the related personnel, for 
example the organization's crisis management manager and team (for guidance on business 
continuity management see ISO/IEC 27031 and ISO/PAS 22399:2007). This will allow 
business critical applications to function correctly, and collect as much information as possible about the 
attacker, provided that the attacker does not know that he/she is under surveillance. Beware of Trojans, rootkits and kernel 
modules that may cause serious damage to the system. This is especially relevant when the attacker is non-malicious and 
has caused little or no damage. further controls to be adopted to prevent re-occurrence or 
similar 
occurrences). Some responses are directed at preventing information security incident re-occurrence or similar occurrence. Other measures to decrease the possibility of re-occurrence or similar occurrence of an IT 
information security incident may include changing system passwords and disabling unused services. Such responses should 
include those for all business aspects, not just directly IT related but also key business function maintenance 
and later restoration – including, as relevant, of voice telecommunications, and personnel levels and physical 
facilities. DoS incidents caused by non-technical means, resulting in loss of information, service and/or facilities, could 
be caused, for example, by: 
 
breaches of physical security arrangements resulting in theft or wilful damage and destruction of 
equipment, 
 
accidental damage to hardware (and/or its location) by fire or water damage/flood, 
 
extreme environmental conditions, for example high operating temperatures (e.g. Physical 
damage 
incident 
The loss of information 
security is caused by 
deliberately or accidentally 
physical actions. This approach classifies business loss into four broad levels: especially serious business loss, 
serious business loss, considerable business loss, and minor business loss, as described below. An organization could not bear this level of business loss. An organization could bear this level of business 
loss. An organization could completely bear this level of business loss. BS ISO/IEC 27035:2011
ISO/IEC 27035:2011(E) 
© ISO/IEC 2011 – All rights reserved 
55
 
C.3.1.1.4 Social Impact 
The impact on society caused by information security incidents is determined by considering the scale and 
degree of the impact on national security, social order, economic development and public interest. This 
approach classifies social impact into four levels: especially important social impact, important social impact, 
considerable social impact and minor social impact, as described below. Such a scale can be simple as ‘major’ and ‘minor’ or more detailed as: 
 
Emergency: severe impact; 
 
Critical: medium impact; 
 
Warning: low impact; 
 
Information: no impact, but analysis could be used to improve information security policies, procedures or 
controls. C.3.1.2.5 Small (Class I) 
Small incidents are those that 
a) 
act on ordinary important information systems and 
b) 
result in minor business loss or no business loss, and 
c) 
lead to minor social impact or no social impact 
d) 
no action required and no consequences. C.3.2.3 Commercial and economic interests 
Commercial and economic information needs to be protected, and is valued by considering its value to 
competitors or the effect its compromise could have on commercial interests. 1 Be of interest to a competitor but of no commercial value 
2 Be of interest to a competitor to a value that is y1 or less (turnover) 
3 Be of value to a competitor to a value that is between y1+1 and y2 (turnover), or cause financial loss, or 
loss of earning potential, or facilitate improper gain or advantage for individuals or organizations,  or 
constitute a breach of proper undertakings to maintain the confidence of information provided by third 
parties 
4 Be of value to a competitor to a value that is between y2+1 and y3 (turnover) 
5 Be of value to a competitor to a value that is between y3+1 and y4 (turnover) 
6 Be of value to a competitor to a value that is more than y4+1 (turnover) 
BS ISO/IEC 27035:2011
ISO/IEC 27035:2011(E) 
© ISO/IEC  D.2 Example items in records 
D.2.1 Example items of the record for information security event 
This includes basic information of the information security event, such as when, what, how and why the event 
occurred, as well as the contact information of the reporting person.  telephone and e-mail 
Incident description 
 
What occurred 
 
How occurred 
 
Why Occurred 
 
Initial views on components/assets affected 
 
Adverse business impacts 
 
Any vulnerability identified 
Incident details 
 
Date and time the incident occurred 
 
Date and time the incident was discovered 
 
Date and time the incident was reported 
Incident category 
Components/assets affected 
Adverse business impact/effect of incident 
Total recovery cost from incident 
Incident resolution 
Person(s)/perpetrator( Whether the 
information 
security 
event 
is 
classified 
as 
an 
incident 
or 
not, 
the 
information 
security 
event/incident/vulnerability database should be updated. Date of Event 
 
 
Page 1 of 1 
2. Event Number3 
 
3. INFORMATION SECURITY EVENT DETAILS 
6.1 Date and Time the Event Occurred 
 
6.2 Date and Time the Event was Discovered 
 
6.3 Date and Time the Event was Reported 
 
6.4 Is the Response to this Event Closed? Incident Number4 
 
3. INFORMATION SECURITY INCIDENT DETAILS 
7.1 Date and Time the Incident Occurred 
 
7.2 Date and Time the Incident was Discovered 
 
7.3 Date and Time the Incident was Reported 
 
7.4 Identity/Contact Details of Reporting Person 
 
7.5 Is the Incident Over? ADVERSE BUSINESS IMPACT/EFFECT OF INCIDENT 
For each of the following indicate if relevant in the tick box, then against “value” record the level(s) of adverse business impact, covering 
all parties affected by the incident, on a scale of 1 to 10 using the guidelines for the categories of: Financial Loss/Disruption to Business 
Operations, Commercial and Economic Interests, Personal Information, Legal and Regulatory Obligations, Management and Business 
Operations, and Loss of Goodwill. VALUE 
GUIDELINE(S) 
COST 
10.1 Breach of Confidentiality 
(i.e. TOTAL RECOVERY COSTS FROM INCIDENT 
(Where possible, the actual total costs of recovery for the 
incident as a whole should be shown, against “value” 
using the 1 to 10 scale and against “cost” in actuals.) INCIDENT RESOLUTION 
12.1 Incident Investigation Commenced Date 
 
12.2 Incident Investigator(s) Names(s) 
 
12.3 Incident End Date 
 
12.4 Impact End Date 
 
12.5 Incident Investigation Completion Date 
 
12.6 Reference and Location of Investigation Report 
 
13. Tel: +44 (0)20 8996 7070
Email: copyright@bsigroup.com