 Tactics serve as useful contextual 
categories for individual techniques and cover standard notations for things adversaries do during 
an operation, such as persist, discover information, move laterally, execute files, and exfiltrate 
data. This tactic is often used in conjunction with initial access as the means of 
executing code once access is obtained, and lateral movement to expand access to remote 
systems on a network. There could be 
many ways of detecting a (sub-)technique but 
ATT&CK and MITRE do not endorse any particular 
vendor solution. Mitigation 
fields are populated on a (sub-)technique page when 
a mitigation object is associated to a 
(sub-)technique.. The relationship describes the 
details of how a specific mitigation can be applied to 
the (sub-)technique. Mitigation recommendations 
remain vendor agnostic, recommending the general 
method or capability class rather than a specific tool. Mitigation may not always be possible for a given 
(sub-)technique and is documented as such if no 
relationships to a given (sub-)technique are present. Software is broken out into two high-level 
categories: tools and malware. Type* 
Tag 
Type of software: malware or tool. Defenders in this context refer to threat hunters, malware analysts, and incident 
responders. Similarly, malware databases also exist but typically lack context around how the malware is 
used and by whom. Goals such as initial access, discovery, 
and credential access are commonly used to gain and expand access within an environment with 
an ultimate objective of stealing information through collection and exfiltration. With the rise of 
targeted ransomware, disk wiper incidents, manipulation of financial transactions, and large scale 
distributed denial of service attacks, it was important for ATT&CK to maintain parity with the 
behavior that adversaries are using even if their goals are not focused on exfiltration of data. An adversary deleting files in order to decrease their likelihood of 
detection on an end system would fall under Indicator Removal on Host: File Deletion in 
Defense Evasion, rather than Data Destruction in Impact despite both techniques involving the 
deletion of files. One example of the former is 
Credential Dumping [10] for Credential Access where dumping credentials is one method of 
gaining access to new credentials—and credentials can be dumped in several different ways. Hidden Files and 
Directories is one example of the latter since it takes advantage of a similar concept that spans 
Windows, Linux, and Mac but is a specific example of how an adversary would hide artifacts on 
a system that is designated by the technique Hide Artifacts. For example, files, locations, registry changes, API 
calls, permissions, etc. How many different ways can it be performed with existing 
adversary malware and other tools? • Many adversary groups use this technique, which is a component of tools, scripts, and 
malware. The resulting code execution can be used for a 
number of purposes, including adding or modifying information, gaining access to a system, 
causing the server to download and execute other code which may result in persistence, 
credential access, privilege escalation, collection, and exfiltration. • Adversaries have been known to use SQLi as a means of gaining access to externally 
available web servers. An example is for 
initial access in a network compromise by compromising an externally facing application. [Accessed 16 March 2020].