 For example, the malware in the above 
report “establishes a SOCKS5 connection.” The act of establishing a connection is a 
behavior the adversary took. Bonus Level 0 Content: Need access to a good enterprise dataset for testing? For example, you can find their  
list of attacks for Regsvr32, including Squiblydoo. Of course, if you’re already doing red  
teaming, feel free to run the attacks you know yourself (on systems where you have  
permission!) and try to develop analytics for those! Bonus Level 0 Content: Really want to create your own analytics and run your own attacks  
but don’t have your own network? Test that confidence and improve your defenses by doing some purple  
teaming! You’ll again give this to your red team, and they’ll execute an evasion that, for example, 
adds an additional access so that your GrantedAccess bitmask no longer detects it. LEVEL 1 
Small teams and those mainly focused on defense can get a lot of benefit out of 
adversary emulation even if they don’t have access to a red team, so don’t worry! It allows the operator to pick one technique or chain many together when  
building the test, which allows you to start to automate sequences of behaviors for your  
testing rather than manually executing single Atomic Tests. | 29 | 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Assessments and Engineering | Andy Applebaum 
LEVEL 1 
If you’re working with a small team that doesn’t have access to lots of resources and 
you’re thinking of doing a full assessment, don’t. A good resource for getting started with event logs is Malware 
Archaeology’s Windows ATT&CK Logging Cheat Sheet, which maps Windows events to the 
techniques you could detect with them. | 32 | 
 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Assessments and Engineering | Andy Applebaum 
LEVEL 2 
Once you’re familiar with this process—and have access to a bit more resources—you’ll 
ideally want to expand your analysis to span a reasonably large subset of the ATT&CK 
Matrix. As an example, you might not be able to install Sysmon on each  
of your endpoints, but your existing software might be able to forward relevant logs that  
you might not otherwise have access to. | 41 | 
|  Solving Problems for a Safer World