 This may be done in order to extract monetary 
compensation from a victim in exchange for decryption or a decryption key (ransomware) or to 
render data permanently inaccessible in cases where the key is not saved or 
transmitted. (Citation: US-CERT Ransomware 2016)(Citation: FireEye WannaCry 2017)(Citation: 
US-CERT NotPetya 2017)(Citation: US-CERT SamSam 2018) 
 
In the case of ransomware, it is typical that common user files like Office documents, PDFs, 
images, videos, audio, text, and source code files will be encrypted (and often renamed and/or 
tagged with specific file markers). (Citation: FireEye WannaCry 
2017)(Citation: US-CERT NotPetya 2017) Encryption malware may also leverage [Internal 
Defacement](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1491/001), such as changing victim 
wallpapers, or otherwise intimidate victims by sending ransom notes or other messages to 
connected printers (known as "print bombing"). This may be achieved by using 
malware that shares a common algorithm with the infrastructure the adversary uses to receive 
the malware's communications. (Citation: Symantec DDoS October 2014) 
 
An Endpoint DoS denies the availability of a service without saturating the network used to 
provide access to the service. For example, malware (particularly 
ransomware) may modify symbolic links and associated settings to enable access to files from 
local shortcuts with remote paths. Financial theft is the ultimate objective of 
several popular campaign types including extortion by ransomware,(Citation: FBI-ransomware) 
business email compromise (BEC) and fraud,(Citation: FBI-BEC) "pig butchering,"(Citation: 
wired-pig butchering) bank hacking,(Citation: DOJ-DPRK Heist) and exploiting cryptocurrency 
networks. (Citation: AP-NotPetya) 
  Associated Tactics: TA0040 
 
T1495: Firmware Corruption 
  Description: Adversaries may overwrite or corrupt the flash memory contents of system BIOS 
or other firmware in devices attached to a system in order to render them inoperable or unable 
to boot, thus denying the availability to use the devices and/or the system. to gain access to credentials that can be used to access systems, 
services, and network resources. ** 
 
Adversaries may use more than one remote access tool with varying command and control 
protocols or credentialed access to remote services so they can maintain access if an access 
mechanism is detected or mitigated. If malware that 
is compatible with the connected system is on the mobile device, the malware could infect the 
machine (especially if Autorun features are enabled). Although 
macOS can execute `.so` files, common practice uses `.dylib` files. Due to how 
the keys are generated, the sender encrypts data with the receiver’s public key and the receiver 
decrypts the data with their private key. (Citation: Norton Botnet) Adversaries may purchase a subscription 
to use an existing botnet from a booter/stresser service. (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire)(Citation: Krebs-Anna)(Citation: Krebs-
Bazaar)(Citation: Krebs-Booter) 
  Parent Technique: T1583 
  Associated Tactics: TA0042 
 
T1584.005: Botnet 
  Description: Adversaries may compromise numerous third-party systems to form a botnet that 
can be used during targeting. A botnet is a network of compromised systems that can be 
instructed to perform coordinated tasks. (Citation: Norton Botnet) Instead of purchasing/renting a 
botnet from a booter/stresser service, adversaries may build their own botnet by compromising 
numerous third-party systems. (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire) Adversaries may also conduct 
a takeover of an existing botnet, such as redirecting bots to adversary-controlled C2 
servers. (Citation: Dell Dridex Oct 2015) With a botnet at their disposal, adversaries may perform 
follow-on activity such as large-scale [Phishing](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1566) or 
Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS). Adversaries may search CDN data to gather actionable information. The 
Microsoft Connection Manager Profile Installer (CMSTP.exe) is a command-line program used 
to install Connection Manager service profiles. CMSTP.exe can also be abused to [Bypass User Account 
Control](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1548/002) and execute arbitrary commands from a 
malicious INF through an auto-elevated COM interface. Files containing email data can be acquired from a user’s local system, such as 
Outlook storage or cache files. (Citation: Elastic 
CUBA Ransomware 2022)(Citation: Aquasec Kubernetes Attack 2023) They may also give 
accounts generic, trustworthy names, such as “admin”, “help”, or “root.”(Citation: Invictus IR 
Cloud Ransomware 2024) Sometimes adversaries may model account names off of those 
already existing in the system, as a follow-on behavior to [Account 
Discovery](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1087). Adversaries may also 
access externally facing Exchange services, Office 365, or Google Workspace to access email 
using credentials or access tokens. In some cases, the passing of files 
embedded using steganography, such as image or document files, can be used for command 
and control. (Citation: Macro 
Malware Targets Macs) 
  Associated Tactics: TA0002 
 
T1499.003: Application Exhaustion Flood 
  Description: Adversaries may target resource intensive features of applications to cause a 
denial of service (DoS), denying availability to those applications. The impact to the user ranges 
from denying the operation under high enforcement to allowing the user to perform the action if 
they are in the local administrators group and click through the prompt or allowing them to enter 
an administrator password to complete the action. With a sufficient level of access, such accounts may be used to establish secondary 
credentialed access that does not require persistent remote access tools to be deployed on the 
system. (Citation: Unit 
42 Hildegard Malware)(Citation: Trend Micro Exposed Docker APIs) 
 
Additionally, some cryptocurrency mining malware identify then kill off processes for competing 
malware to ensure it’s not competing for resources. Conditional access policies are additional verifications used 
by identity providers and identity and access management systems to determine whether a user 
should be granted access to a resource. For example, in Entra ID, Okta, and JumpCloud, users can be denied access to applications 
based on their IP address, device enrollment status, and use of multi-factor 
authentication. An adversary who can determine that the malware was quarantined 
because of its file signature may modify the file to explicitly avoid that signature, and then re-use 
the malware. Associated Tactics: TA0002 
 
T1587.001: Malware 
  Description: Adversaries may develop malware and malware components that can be used 
during targeting. In addition to purchasing malware, adversaries may steal and 
repurpose malware from third-party entities (including other adversaries). Container files downloaded from the Internet will be marked with MOTW but the files within may 
not inherit the MOTW after the container files are extracted and/or mounted. PAM is a modular system of 
configuration files, libraries, and executable files which guide authentication for many services. (Citation: 
Microsoft Safe Mode)(Citation: Sophos Snatch Ransomware 2019) 
 
Adversaries may abuse safe mode to disable endpoint defenses that may not start with a limited 
boot. (Citation: OS X 
Keychain)(Citation: External to DA, the OS X Way) Apple’s `securityd` utility takes the user’s 
logon password, encrypts it with PBKDF2, and stores this master key in memory. Access to Registry keys is controlled through 
access control lists and user permissions. Timestomping is a technique that modifies the timestamps of a file (the modify, access, 
create, and change times), often to mimic files that are in the same folder and blend malicious 
files with legitimate files. (Citation: Microsoft DACL May 2018) Similar to a standard ACL, DACLs identifies the 
accounts that are allowed or denied access to a securable object. Otherwise, access is denied. Associated Tactics: TA0002