 In some cases, it may be desirable for the organization to include awareness detail specifically about 
information security incident management in other training programs (for example, personnel orientation 
programs or general corporate security awareness programs). This awareness approach may provide 
valuable context relevant to particular groups of people, and improves training program effectiveness and 
efficiency. Before the information security incident management scheme becomes operational, the organization should 
ensure that all relevant personnel are familiar with the procedures involved in the detection and reporting of 
information security events, and selected personnel are very knowledgeable about the subsequent activities. This should be followed up by regular awareness briefings and training courses. BS ISO/IEC 27035:2011
ISO/IEC 27035:2011(E) 
22 
© ISO/IEC 2011 – All rights reserved
 
5.8 Scheme testing 
The organization should schedule regular checking and testing of the information security incident 
management processes and procedures to highlight potential flaws and problems that may arise during the 
management of information security events and incidents and vulnerabilities. Periodic tests should be 
organized to check processes/procedures and to verify how the ISIRT responds to severe complex incidents, 
through the simulation of realistic attacks, failures or faults. The 
organization should ensure that the appropriate personnel deal with reported information security 
vulnerabilities in a similar manner to how non-information security faults are handled, possibly with 
assessment and resolution using technical personnel (who may or may not be members of the ISIRT). Evidence can be protected with cryptography, locks 
and records of access. a) 
A full information security forensics duplication of the affected system or a low level backup of logs and 
important files should be undertaken depending on the nature of the information security incident. file, print, communications and e-mail), as well as remote access facilities. c) 
Activity to identify all relevant files on the subject system, service and/or network, including normal files, 
password or otherwise protected files, and encrypted files. d) 
Activity to recover as much as possible discovered deleted files, and other data. g) 
Activity to access the contents of protected or encrypted files (unless prevented by law). i) 
Activity to analyze file access, modification and creation times. m) Activity to perform file integrity checks to detect Trojan horse files and files not originally on the system. p) 
Activity to conclude on the reasons for the information security incident, the actions required and in what 
timeframe, with evidence including lists of relevant files included in an attachment to the main report. In some cases, technical information gathering extends into unauthorized access if, for example, as part of 
searching for vulnerabilities the attacker also attempts to gain unauthorized access. Malware 
incident 
The loss of information 
security is caused by 
malicious programs that are 
created and disseminated 
deliberately. A malicious code embedded web page defaces website by 
including malicious code that installs malware on a 
computer system accessing it. Denial of actions is when someone's denies what he/she 
has done.  root 
compromise) 
Technical Attacks 
 
Annoyance 
(Scratch the 
surface) 
Disturbance 
(Throughput 
impact) 
Unavailability 
(Stop in services) 
Malware 
Single known 
(Detected and 
blocked by 
antivirus 
protection) 
Single unknown 
Multiple infections 
Server infections 
Mass infections 
 
C.3.2 
Example approach 2 
C.3.2.1 Introduction 
This approach presents outline example guidelines for assessing the adverse consequences of information 
security incidents, with each guideline using a scale of 1 (low) to 10 (high) scale to classify the information 
security incidents. INFORMATION SECURITY INCIDENT CATEGORY 
(One of) 
8.9 Malware 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Network worm 
        Trojan horse 
        Botnet 
        Blended attacks 
 
Malicious code embedded web page 
        Malicious code hosting site 
        Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8. This may include: 
- 
those individuals with access to the personal data should, so far as is practical, not personally know 
the person(s) being investigated, 
- 
non-disclosure agreements should be signed by those individuals with access to the personal data 
prior to them being allowed access to it, 
- 
information should only be used for the express purpose for which it has been obtained, i.e. Tel: +44 (0)20 8996 7070
Email: copyright@bsigroup.com