 A virtual team may have a senior manager leading the team supported by groups of individuals 
specialized in particular topics, e.g. Particular attention should be paid to the creation 
of the simulated scenarios, which should be based on real new information security threats. In addition to recording the date(s) and time(s) of actions, it is necessary to fully document the following: 
a) 
what was seen and done (including tools used) and why, 
b) 
the location of the potential evidence, 
c) 
how evidence is archived (if applicable), 
d) 
how evidence verification was performed (if applicable), and 
e) 
details of storage/safe custody of material and subsequent access to it. To aid this activity when the need arises, it is sensible practice to prepare certain information in advance such 
that it is quickly adjusted to the circumstances of a particular information security incident and issued to each 
relevant group and in particular the press and/or other media. Formal event reporting and escalation procedures 
should be in place. DoS incidents caused by non-technical means, resulting in loss of information, service and/or facilities, could 
be caused, for example, by: 
 
breaches of physical security arrangements resulting in theft or wilful damage and destruction of 
equipment, 
 
accidental damage to hardware (and/or its location) by fire or water damage/flood, 
 
extreme environmental conditions, for example high operating temperatures (e.g. Interception, spying, eavesdropping, disclosure,
masquerade, social engineering, network phishing, theft of 
data, loss of data, tampering with data, data error, data 
flow analysis, position detection, etc. Position detection is to detect the position of sensitive 
information or systems.  Social engineering 
        Network phishing 
        Theft of data 
 
Loss of data 
        Tampering with data 
        Data error 
        Data flow analysis 
 
Position detection 
        Other 
 
 
Specify: 
(One of) 
8.14 Harmful contents 
 
(indicate threat types involved) 
 
Illegal contents 
        Panic contents 
        Malicious contents 
 
Abusive contents 
        Other 
 
 
Specify: 
 
8.15 Others 
 
(If not yet established whether incident belongs to the 
above category, tick here) 
 
Specify: 
 
 
BS ISO/IEC 27035:2011
ISO/IEC 27035:2011(E) 
70 
© ISO/IEC 2011 – All rights reserved
 
Information Security Incident Report 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 6 
9. INCIDENT RESOLUTION 
12.1 Incident Investigation Commenced Date 
 
12.2 Incident Investigator(s) Names(s) 
 
12.3 Incident End Date 
 
12.4 Impact End Date 
 
12.5 Incident Investigation Completion Date 
 
12.6 Reference and Location of Investigation Report 
 
13.  
Controls are in place to Ensure Fulfillment of Commercial Contractual Obligations. The issues of potential liability, and related required controls to be in place, 
need to be clarified.