 Translate the behavior into a tactic—Consider the adversary’s technical goal for that 
behavior and choose a tactic that fits. For the SOCKS5 connection example, establishing 
a connection to later communicate would fall under the Command and Control tactic. For example, you can find their  
list of attacks for Regsvr32, including Squiblydoo. Of course, if you’re already doing red  
teaming, feel free to run the attacks you know yourself (on systems where you have  
permission!) and try to develop analytics for those! Bonus Level 0 Content: Really want to create your own analytics and run your own attacks  
but don’t have your own network? Test that confidence and improve your defenses by doing some purple  
teaming! They adapt and try to evade your defenses—including your analytics  
(that’s why there’s a defense evasion tactic in ATT&CK, after all). In this case, they might rename the executable to mimidogz.exe. Adversary emulators construct a scenario to test certain aspects of an adversary’s tactics, 
techniques, and procedures (TTPs). Since ATT&CK is a large knowledge base of real-world adversary behaviors, it doesn’t take much  
imagination to draw a connection between adversary or red team behaviors and ATT&CK. It allows the operator to pick one technique or chain many together when  
building the test, which allows you to start to automate sequences of behaviors for your  
testing rather than manually executing single Atomic Tests. PROCESS FOR CREATING AN ADVERSARY EMULATION PLAN 
| 26 | 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Adversary Emulation and Red Teaming | Blake Strom, Tim Schulz, and Katie Nickels 
1. Gather threat intel—Select an adversary based on the threats to your organization 
and work with the CTI team to analyze intelligence about what the adversary has 
done. | 31 | 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Assessments and Engineering | Andy Applebaum 
THE 97 OUT OF 244 ATT&CK TECHNIQUES THAT CAN BE DETECTED WITH PROCESS   
COMMAND-LINE PARAMETERS, WHICH CAN BE INGESTED VIA WINDOWS EVENT 4688 
Graduating to the next level: Don’t stop at one technique—run through this process  
several times, picking a new technique (or two) across each tactic for each run. These describe the procedures, or specific ways, an adversary  
has used a technique. | 40 | 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
Blake Strom is the capability area lead for adversary emulation at MITRE 
and has worked in the areas of network defense, cyber threat intelligence, 
security research, and adversary emulation. | 41 | 
|  Solving Problems for a Safer World