 The occurrence of an information security event does not necessarily mean that an attempt has been 
successful or that there are any implications on confidentiality, integrity and/or availability, i.e. These impacts can 
include immediate financial loss and longer-term loss arising from damaged reputation and credibility (for 
guidance on business impact analysis, see ISO/IEC 27005:2008). The data collected to identify the occurrence frequency of the 
various threat types will greatly aid the quality of the threat assessment. Their consequences may include the disclosure, modification, 
destruction, or unavailability of information in an unauthorized manner, or the damage or theft of 
organizational assets. 2) The information security event/incident/vulnerability forms: 
i) 
completed by the person reporting an information security event (i.e. The information security incident management 
scheme comes into effect whenever an information security event is detected, or an information security 
vulnerability is reported. An ISIRT contributes to the reduction in physical and monetary 
damage, as well as the reduction of the damage to the organization's reputation that is sometimes associated 
with information security incidents. 6 
Detection and reporting phase 
6.1 Overview of key activities 
The first phase of the operational use of an information security incident management scheme involves the 
detecting of, collecting information associated with, and reporting on occurrences of information security 
events and existence of information security vulnerabilities by human or automatic means. Example guidelines are given in Annex C. Example categories are the 
following: 
a) 
financial loss/disruption to business operations, 
b) 
commercial and economic interests, 
c) 
personal information, 
d) 
legal and regulatory obligations, 
e) 
management and business operations, 
f) 
loss of goodwill, 
g) 
injury or loss of life, and 
h) 
societal disruption. controls to be adopted to prevent re-occurrence or similar 
occurrences). An information security incident should be correlated to any other event/incident reported to the ISIRT. This 
important activity is to verify if the incident is connected to any other event/incident or it is simply the effect of 
another incident, i.e. Beware of Trojans, rootkits and kernel 
modules that may cause serious damage to the system. This is especially relevant when the attacker is non-malicious and 
has caused little or no damage. further controls to be adopted to prevent re-occurrence or 
similar 
occurrences). Some responses are directed at preventing information security incident re-occurrence or similar occurrence. Other measures to decrease the possibility of re-occurrence or similar occurrence of an IT 
information security incident may include changing system passwords and disabling unused services. DoS incidents caused by non-technical means, resulting in loss of information, service and/or facilities, could 
be caused, for example, by: 
 
breaches of physical security arrangements resulting in theft or wilful damage and destruction of 
equipment, 
 
accidental damage to hardware (and/or its location) by fire or water damage/flood, 
 
extreme environmental conditions, for example high operating temperatures (e.g. Physical 
damage 
incident 
The loss of information 
security is caused by 
deliberately or accidentally 
physical actions. This approach classifies business loss into four broad levels: especially serious business loss, 
serious business loss, considerable business loss, and minor business loss, as described below. An organization could not bear this level of business loss. An organization could bear this level of business 
loss. An organization could completely bear this level of business loss. C.3.2.3 Commercial and economic interests 
Commercial and economic information needs to be protected, and is valued by considering its value to 
competitors or the effect its compromise could have on commercial interests. D.2 Example items in records 
D.2.1 Example items of the record for information security event 
This includes basic information of the information security event, such as when, what, how and why the event 
occurred, as well as the contact information of the reporting person.  telephone and e-mail 
Incident description 
 
What occurred 
 
How occurred 
 
Why Occurred 
 
Initial views on components/assets affected 
 
Adverse business impacts 
 
Any vulnerability identified 
Incident details 
 
Date and time the incident occurred 
 
Date and time the incident was discovered 
 
Date and time the incident was reported 
Incident category 
Components/assets affected 
Adverse business impact/effect of incident 
Total recovery cost from incident 
Incident resolution 
Person(s)/perpetrator( Whether the 
information 
security 
event 
is 
classified 
as 
an 
incident 
or 
not, 
the 
information 
security 
event/incident/vulnerability database should be updated. Date of Event 
 
 
Page 1 of 1 
2. Event Number3 
 
3. INFORMATION SECURITY EVENT DETAILS 
6.1 Date and Time the Event Occurred 
 
6.2 Date and Time the Event was Discovered 
 
6.3 Date and Time the Event was Reported 
 
6.4 Is the Response to this Event Closed? Incident Number4 
 
3. INFORMATION SECURITY INCIDENT DETAILS 
7.1 Date and Time the Incident Occurred 
 
7.2 Date and Time the Incident was Discovered 
 
7.3 Date and Time the Incident was Reported 
 
7.4 Identity/Contact Details of Reporting Person 
 
7.5 Is the Incident Over? ADVERSE BUSINESS IMPACT/EFFECT OF INCIDENT 
For each of the following indicate if relevant in the tick box, then against “value” record the level(s) of adverse business impact, covering 
all parties affected by the incident, on a scale of 1 to 10 using the guidelines for the categories of: Financial Loss/Disruption to Business 
Operations, Commercial and Economic Interests, Personal Information, Legal and Regulatory Obligations, Management and Business 
Operations, and Loss of Goodwill. INCIDENT RESOLUTION 
12.1 Incident Investigation Commenced Date 
 
12.2 Incident Investigator(s) Names(s) 
 
12.3 Incident End Date 
 
12.4 Impact End Date 
 
12.5 Incident Investigation Completion Date 
 
12.6 Reference and Location of Investigation Report 
 
13.