 Introduction 
MITRE ATT&CK is a curated knowledge base and model for cyber adversary behavior, 
reflecting the various phases of an adversary’s attack lifecycle and the platforms they are known 
to target. ATT&CK focuses on how external adversaries compromise and operate within 
computer information networks. It originated out of a project to document and categorize post-
compromise adversary tactics, techniques and procedures (TTPs) against Microsoft Windows 
systems to improve detection of malicious behavior. At a high-level, ATT&CK is a behavioral model that consists of the following 
core components: 
• Tactics, denoting short-term, tactical adversary goals during an attack; 
• Techniques, describing the means by which adversaries achieve tactical goals; 
• Sub-techniques, describing more specific means by which adversaries achieve tactical 
goals at a lower level than techniques; and 
• Documented adversary usage of techniques, their procedures, and other metadata. ATT&CK is not an exhaustive enumeration of attack vectors against software. The goal was to improve post-
compromise detection of threats penetrating enterprise networks through telemetry sensing and 
behavioral analytics [4]. ATT&CK was used by both the adversary emulation team (for scenario 
development) and the defender team (for analytic progress measurement), which made it a 
driving force within the FMX research. If ipconfig.exe is frequently and legitimately used then notifying an 
analyst with an alert on each instance as potential intrusion behavior would be excessive. There could be 
many ways of detecting a (sub-)technique but 
ATT&CK and MITRE do not endorse any particular 
vendor solution. Detection recommendations should 
therefore remain vendor agnostic, recommending 
the general method and class of tools rather than a 
specific tool. Mitigation 
fields are populated on a (sub-)technique page when 
a mitigation object is associated to a 
(sub-)technique.. The relationship describes the 
details of how a specific mitigation can be applied to 
the (sub-)technique. Mitigation recommendations 
remain vendor agnostic, recommending the general 
method or capability class rather than a specific tool. Mitigation may not always be possible for a given 
(sub-)technique and is documented as such if no 
relationships to a given (sub-)technique are present. Groups are defined as 
named intrusion sets, threat groups, actor groups, or campaigns that typically represent targeted, 
persistent threat activity. The perspective shift changes the question from what did happen based on a list of available 
resources to what could happen with a framework for aligning a defensive strategy to the 
adversary’s playbook. An example is for 
initial access in a network compromise by compromising an externally facing application. • SQLi is a variation of an exploitation technique against a specific software technology 
and is an appropriate abstraction within how an adversary performs initial compromise. Even though 
ATT&CK focuses on how adversaries compromise and operate within computer information 
networks and related technologies, the methodology behind how it was built can be applied to 
other areas. Adoption of ATT&CK is widespread across multiple disciplines, including intrusion detection, 
threat hunting, security engineering, threat intelligence, red teaming, and risk management. Available: https://medium.com/mitre-attack/2020-attack-roadmap-4820d30b38ba. [2]  The MITRE Corporation, "Common Attack Pattern Enumeration and Classification," 21 
February 2018. [6]  C. Betz, S. Caltagirone and A. Pendergast, "The Diamond Model of Intrusion Analysis," 
2013. Available: https://medium.com/mitre-attack/how-to-be-a-savvy-attack-consumer-
63e45b8e94c9. [Accessed 16 March 2020].