 Adam Pennington  
Principal Cybersecurity Engineer  
ATT&CK Blog Editor in Chief  
MITRE 
attack.mitre.org 
medium.com/mitre-attack 
twitter.com/MITREattack 
linkedin.com/showcase/mitre-att&ck 
| 1 | 
1 Threat Intelligence 
Katie Nickels 
Based on feedback from ATT&CK users, both at the first ATT&CKcon and from other avenues,  
we’ve learned a lot. 2 Detection and Analytics 
John Wunder 
Hopefully you had a chance to read in Chapter 1 on getting started using ATT&CK for threat  
intelligence, which walked through understanding what adversaries are doing to attack you and  
how to use that knowledge to prioritize what to defend. Once you’ve got data in your SIEM you’re ready to try some analytics. For example, you can find their  
list of attacks for Regsvr32, including Squiblydoo. Of course, if you’re already doing red  
teaming, feel free to run the attacks you know yourself (on systems where you have  
permission!) and try to develop analytics for those! Bonus Level 0 Content: Really want to create your own analytics and run your own attacks  
but don’t have your own network? | 14 | 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Detection and Analytics | John Wunder 
OUTPUT FROM RUNNING THE SQUIBLYDOO ATTACK TO LAUNCH CALC.EXE  
Once you’ve run the attack, look inside your SIEM to see what log data was generated. ANALYTIC DEVELOPMENT WORKFLOW 
| 15 | 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Detection and Analytics | John Wunder 
LEVEL 3 
Feel confident that you’re cranking out quality analytics to detect attacks from Atomic  
Red Team? They can then find and execute an attack that  
will evade that analytic. At that point, you’ll need 
to update your analytic to look for different artifacts and behaviors that won’t rely on 
the exact naming. In the end, you want to be developing a more  
and more comprehensive set of detections so that you can detect more and more of the  
things that adversaries do to attack us—and ATT&CK gives you the scorecard to do so. | 18 | 
 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Detection and Analytics | John Wunder 
RESOURCES 
Square CAR: MITRE’s repository of analytics 
Square EQL: Endgame’s open-source repository of analytics 
Square Sigma: A tool-independent format for analytics, along with a repository of analytics in 
that format from Florian Roth and Thomas Patzke 
Square ThreatHunter Playbook: A repository of strategies to look for ATT&CK techniques in log 
data (i.e. Adversary emulators construct a scenario to test certain aspects of an adversary’s tactics, 
techniques, and procedures (TTPs). The red team then follows the scenario while operating on a 
target network to test how defenses might fare against the emulated adversary. It allows the operator to pick one technique or chain many together when  
building the test, which allows you to start to automate sequences of behaviors for your  
testing rather than manually executing single Atomic Tests. You can use one of the pre-
built scenarios or define a more specific scenario by choosing the procedures (called  
abilities in CALDERA) that map to certain ATT&CK techniques you want to test. | 25 | 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Adversary Emulation and Red Teaming | Blake Strom, Tim Schulz, and Katie Nickels 
Bonus Level 2.5 Content: After using ATT&CK to plan engagements and report results,  
try using the  APT3 Emulation Plan or the ATT&CK Evaluations Round 1 scenario based on  
that plan to conduct an engagement emulating APT3 to show a baseline test against a  
particular adversary group. Square Leveraging Microsoft EMET’s Attack Surface Reduction rules can make it harder to 
use RunDLL32. He advocates for security 
through verification at all points at which an adversary could be detected or stopped 
because defenders should not wait for a real intrusion to see if their methods work. | 41 | 
|  Solving Problems for a Safer World