Data extracted from: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mitre-attack/attack-stix-
data/master/enterprise-attack/enterprise-attack.json 
 
Obs. Associated Tactics: TA0002, TA0008 
 
T1586: Compromise Accounts 
  Description: Adversaries may compromise accounts with services that can be used during 
targeting. (Citation: Google Cloud Mandiant UNC3886 2024) 
  Associated Tactics: TA0003 
 
T1584: Compromise Infrastructure 
  Description: Adversaries may compromise third-party infrastructure that can be used during 
targeting. Prior to targeting, adversaries may compromise the infrastructure of other 
adversaries. Reasons for 
[Defacement](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1491) include delivering messaging, 
intimidation, or claiming (possibly false) credit for an intrusion. This kind of targeted campaign is often referred to a 
strategic web compromise or watering hole attack. (Citation: Shadowserver Strategic Web Compromise) 
 
Typical drive-by compromise process: 
 
1. Botnets are commonly used to conduct DDoS attacks against networks and services. In such circumstances, distinguishing DDoS traffic from legitimate clients becomes exceedingly 
difficult. Botnets have been used in some of the most high-profile DDoS attacks, such as the 
2012 series of incidents that targeted major US banks. (Citation: Bugcrowd Replay Attack)(Citation: Comparitech Replay 
Attack)(Citation: Microsoft Midnight Blizzard Replay Attack) 
 
Such exploitation has been demonstrated in cloud environments as well. Removal of these indicators may interfere with event collection, reporting, or other processes 
used to detect intrusion activity. This traffic can be generated by a single system or multiple systems spread across the internet, 
which is commonly referred to as a distributed DoS (DDoS). (Citation: 
Exploiting Smartphone USB ) This infection may be achieved using devices (Android, iOS, etc.) The infection could continue to spread via the newly 
infected file when it is executed by a remote system. Adversaries can compromise and manipulate devices that perform encryption of network traffic. (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire)(Citation: Krebs-Anna)(Citation: Krebs-
Bazaar)(Citation: Krebs-Booter) 
  Parent Technique: T1583 
  Associated Tactics: TA0042 
 
T1584.005: Botnet 
  Description: Adversaries may compromise numerous third-party systems to form a botnet that 
can be used during targeting. A botnet is a network of compromised systems that can be 
instructed to perform coordinated tasks. (Citation: Norton Botnet) Instead of purchasing/renting a 
botnet from a booter/stresser service, adversaries may build their own botnet by compromising 
numerous third-party systems. (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire) Adversaries may also conduct 
a takeover of an existing botnet, such as redirecting bots to adversary-controlled C2 
servers. CMSTP.exe can also be abused to [Bypass User Account 
Control](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1548/002) and execute arbitrary commands from a 
malicious INF through an auto-elevated COM interface. Removal of these files can occur during an 
intrusion, or as part of a post-intrusion process to minimize the adversary's footprint. Since 
internally defacing systems exposes an adversary's presence, it often takes place after other 
intrusion goals have been accomplished. This infection vector may therefore remain hidden from 
the ad network as well as any visitor not reaching the malicious sites with a valid identifier from 
clicking on the advertisement. Use 
of the RTLO character has been seen in many targeted intrusion attempts and criminal 
activity. (Citation: Shortcut for Persistence ) Although often used as payloads in an infection 
chain (e.g. In this scenario, adversaries send messages through various 
social media services, personal webmail, and other non-enterprise controlled services. In this scenario, adversaries 
are not directly sending malware to a victim vice relying on [User 
Execution](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1204) for delivery and execution. In this scenario, adversaries send messages through various 
social media services, personal webmail, and other non-enterprise controlled services. An adversary can also present a 
“healthy” system status even after infection. This DoS attack may also reduce the availability and 
functionality of the targeted system(s) and network. In such circumstances, distinguishing DDoS traffic from legitimate clients 
becomes exceedingly difficult. Botnets have been used in some of the most high-profile DDoS 
flooding attacks, such as the 2012 series of incidents that targeted major US banks. This kind of targeted 
campaign is referred to a strategic web compromise or watering hole attack. Encrypting and/or encoding file content aims to conceal 
malicious artifacts within a file used in an intrusion. An adversary accomplishes a reflection attack by 
sending packets to reflectors with the spoofed address of the victim. In this authentication scenario, 
the user’s public key must be in a special file on the computer running the server that lists which 
keypairs are allowed to login as that user. In this scenario, adversaries attach a file to the spearphishing 
email and usually rely upon the recipient populating information then returning the file. In this scenario, adversaries 
use phone calls to elicit sensitive information from victims. Adversaries may compromise VPSs purchased by third-party 
entities. Associated Tactics: TA0002