 The attack vectors are: 
 External/Removable Media: An attack executed from removable media (e.g., flash drive, CD) or a 
peripheral device.  Attrition: An attack that employs brute force methods to compromise, degrade, or destroy systems, 
networks, or services.  Other: An attack that does not fit into any of the other categories. 2.2 
Need for Incident Response 
Attacks frequently compromise personal and business data, and it is critical to respond quickly and 
effectively when security breaches occur. The following are examples of other services a team might offer: 
 Intrusion Detection. The first tier of an incident response team often assumes responsibility for 
intrusion detection.17 The team generally benefits because it should be poised to analyze incidents 
more quickly and accurately, based on the knowledge it gains of intrusion detection technologies. Examples include monitoring intrusion detection 
sensors, distributing security advisories, and educating users on security. These 
workstations typically contain a set of removable hard drives that can be used for evidence storage. The jump kit should be ready to go at all times. Jump kits contain 
many of the same items listed in the bulleted lists above. For example, each jump kit typically includes a 
laptop, loaded with appropriate software (e.g., packet sniffers, digital forensics). Other important 
materials include backup devices, blank media, and basic networking equipment and cables. In addition to an investigative laptop, each incident handler should also 
have a standard laptop, smart phone, or other computing device for writing reports, reading email, and 
performing other duties unrelated to the hands-on incident analysis.  Attrition: An attack that employs brute force methods to compromise, degrade, or destroy systems, 
networks, or services (e.g., a DDoS intended to impair or deny access to a service or application; a 
brute force attack against an authentication mechanism, such as passwords, CAPTCHAS, or digital 
signatures).  Other: An attack that does not fit into any of the other categories. 31  
See NIST SP 800-94, Guide to Intrusion Detection and Prevention Systems, for additional information on IDPS products. Intrusion detection systems may produce false positives—
incorrect indicators. A network IDPS may detect that an attack was launched 
against a particular host, but it may not know if the attack was successful. For example, the strategy for containing an 
email-borne malware infection is quite different from that of a network-based DDoS attack. The delayed containment strategy is dangerous because an 
attacker could escalate unauthorized access or compromise other systems. Performing an Internet search using the 
apparent source IP address of an attack may lead to more information on the attack—for example, a 
mailing list message regarding a similar attack. For example, if an 
attacker is able to use knowledge gathered in one attack to perform a more severe attack later, 
evidence from the first attack may be key to explaining how the second attack was accomplished. The following are additional questions for this scenario: 
1. Scenario 2: Worm and Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) Agent Infestation 
On a Tuesday morning, a new worm is released; it spreads itself through removable media, and it can 
copy itself to open Windows shares. When the worm infects a host, it installs a DDoS agent. The following are additional questions for this scenario: 
1. How would the handling of this incident change if infected hosts that had received the DDoS 
agent had been configured to attack another organization’s website the next morning? The following are additional questions for this scenario: 
1. What sources might the team use to determine when the compromise had occurred? The following are additional questions for this scenario: 
1. If the incident response team determined that the initial compromise had been performed through 
a wireless network card in the internal host, how would the team further investigate this activity? The following are additional questions for this scenario: 
1. Scenario 8: Telecommuting Compromise 
On a Saturday night, network intrusion detection software records an inbound connection originating 
from a watchlist IP address. The intrusion detection analyst determines that the connection is being made 
to the organization’s VPN server and contacts the incident response team. The following are additional questions for this scenario: 
1. 
Chief Information Security Officer 
CSIRC  
Computer Security Incident Response Capability 
CSIRT  
Computer Security Incident Response Team 
DDoS  
Distributed Denial of Service 
DHS 
 
Department of Homeland Security 
DNS 
 
Domain Name System 
DoS 
 
Denial of Service 
FAQ 
 
Frequently Asked Questions 
FBI 
 
Federal Bureau of Investigation 
FIPS 
  For example, if a workstation appears to have 
been infected by malware, the incident report should include as much of the following data as 
practical: 
 The user’s name, user ID, and contact information (e.g., phone number, email address) 
 The workstation’s location, model number, serial number, hostname, and IP address 
 The date and time that the incident occurred 
 A step-by-step explanation of what happened, including what was done to the workstation 
after the infection was discovered. 1.1) 
 Added a mention of exercises (Section 3.1.1) 
 Revised the attack vectors (formerly incident categories) (Section 3.2.1) 
COMPUTER SECURITY INCIDENT HANDLING GUIDE 
70 
 Added SIEMs, network flows as common sources of precursors and indicators (Section 3.2.3) 
 Expanded discussion of eradication and recovery (Section 3.3.4) 
 Added a section on coordination and information sharing (Section 4) 
 Added a table of data exchange specifications applicable to incident handling (Appendix E)