 Adam Pennington  
Principal Cybersecurity Engineer  
ATT&CK Blog Editor in Chief  
MITRE 
attack.mitre.org 
medium.com/mitre-attack 
twitter.com/MITREattack 
linkedin.com/showcase/mitre-att&ck 
| 1 | 
1 Threat Intelligence 
Katie Nickels 
Based on feedback from ATT&CK users, both at the first ATT&CKcon and from other avenues,  
we’ve learned a lot. Understand ATT&CK—Familiarize yourself with the overall structure of ATT&CK: 
tactics (the adversary’s technical goals), techniques (how those goals are achieved), 
and procedures (specific implementations of techniques). | 6 | 
 
  
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Threat Intelligence | Katie Nickels 
APT3 + APT29 TECHNIQUES 
You should substitute the groups and techniques you care about based on your  
organization’s top threats. You can continue adding in the techniques you’ve observed adversaries doing based on  
the data you have and develop a “heat map” of frequently used techniques. 2 Detection and Analytics 
John Wunder 
Hopefully you had a chance to read in Chapter 1 on getting started using ATT&CK for threat  
intelligence, which walked through understanding what adversaries are doing to attack you and  
how to use that knowledge to prioritize what to defend. Bonus Level 0 Content: Need access to a good enterprise dataset for testing? For example, you can find their  
list of attacks for Regsvr32, including Squiblydoo. Of course, if you’re already doing red  
teaming, feel free to run the attacks you know yourself (on systems where you have  
permission!) and try to develop analytics for those! Bonus Level 0 Content: Really want to create your own analytics and run your own attacks  
but don’t have your own network? | 14 | 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Detection and Analytics | John Wunder 
OUTPUT FROM RUNNING THE SQUIBLYDOO ATTACK TO LAUNCH CALC.EXE  
Once you’ve run the attack, look inside your SIEM to see what log data was generated. They can then find and execute an attack that  
will evade that analytic. You’ll again give this to your red team, and they’ll execute an evasion that, for example, 
adds an additional access so that your GrantedAccess bitmask no longer detects it. In the end, you want to be developing a more  
and more comprehensive set of detections so that you can detect more and more of the  
things that adversaries do to attack us—and ATT&CK gives you the scorecard to do so. LEVEL 1 
Small teams and those mainly focused on defense can get a lot of benefit out of 
adversary emulation even if they don’t have access to a red team, so don’t worry! But how do you know if you’d really detect that technique? It allows the operator to pick one technique or chain many together when  
building the test, which allows you to start to automate sequences of behaviors for your  
testing rather than manually executing single Atomic Tests. Some red teams have their tried and true toolkits and methods of operation. In  the  next  graphic,  Cobalt  
Strike techniques are red, OilRig techniques are blue, and techniques Cobalt Strike can  
perform and OilRig has used are purple. These purple techniques give us a place to start to use a tool we already have and  
perform techniques that are a priority to our organization. Extract techniques—In the same way you mapped your red team operations to 
ATT&CK techniques, map the intel you have to specific techniques in conjunction with 
your intel team. | 29 | 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Assessments and Engineering | Andy Applebaum 
LEVEL 1 
If you’re working with a small team that doesn’t have access to lots of resources and 
you’re thinking of doing a full assessment, don’t. Instead, start small: select a single technique to focus on, determine your coverage 
for that technique, and then make the appropriate engineering enhancements to start 
detecting it. Tip: Not sure which technique to start with? Once you have a technique picked out, you’ll want to figure out what your coverage 
of that technique is. Oftentimes you’ll need to bring in other 
information about the technique, which you can get from the technique’s ATT&CK page 
or an external source. | 32 | 
 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Assessments and Engineering | Andy Applebaum 
LEVEL 2 
Once you’re familiar with this process—and have access to a bit more resources—you’ll 
ideally want to expand your analysis to span a reasonably large subset of the ATT&CK 
Matrix. Oftentimes they represent variations of a technique that may or  
may not be covered by existing analytics and should also be factored into a confidence  
assessment in how well you cover a technique. As an example, you might not be able to install Sysmon on each  
of your endpoints, but your existing software might be able to forward relevant logs that  
you might not otherwise have access to. Square Leveraging Microsoft EMET’s Attack Surface Reduction rules can make it harder to 
use RunDLL32. He advocates for security 
through verification at all points at which an adversary could be detected or stopped 
because defenders should not wait for a real intrusion to see if their methods work. | 41 | 
|  Solving Problems for a Safer World