 Executive Summary 
This paper discusses the motivation behind the creation of ATT&CK, the components described 
within it, its design philosophy, how the project has progressed, and how it can be used. Introduction 
MITRE ATT&CK is a curated knowledge base and model for cyber adversary behavior, 
reflecting the various phases of an adversary’s attack lifecycle and the platforms they are known 
to target. At a high-level, ATT&CK is a behavioral model that consists of the following 
core components: 
• Tactics, denoting short-term, tactical adversary goals during an attack; 
• Techniques, describing the means by which adversaries achieve tactical goals; 
• Sub-techniques, describing more specific means by which adversaries achieve tactical 
goals at a lower level than techniques; and 
• Documented adversary usage of techniques, their procedures, and other metadata. ATT&CK is not an exhaustive enumeration of attack vectors against software. These gaps represent blind spots for 
potential vectors that allow an adversary to gain access to its networks undetected or 
unmitigated. It is independent of 
technology and models an adversary’s behavior as they attempt to gain access to an organization 
or entity through the technology they leverage, spanning multiple domains. Tactics serve as useful contextual 
categories for individual techniques and cover standard notations for things adversaries do during 
an operation, such as persist, discover information, move laterally, execute files, and exfiltrate 
data. For example, an adversary may dump credentials from an operating system to gain access to 
useful credentials within a network. (For example, “what techniques can I detect if I 
have process monitoring in place?”) 
Supports Remote 
Tag 
If the (sub-)technique can be used to execute 
something on a remote system. There could be 
many ways of detecting a (sub-)technique but 
ATT&CK and MITRE do not endorse any particular 
vendor solution. Mitigation 
fields are populated on a (sub-)technique page when 
a mitigation object is associated to a 
(sub-)technique.. The relationship describes the 
details of how a specific mitigation can be applied to 
the (sub-)technique. Mitigation recommendations 
remain vendor agnostic, recommending the general 
method or capability class rather than a specific tool. Mitigation may not always be possible for a given 
(sub-)technique and is documented as such if no 
relationships to a given (sub-)technique are present. Defenders are then able to follow the adversary’s motivation for 
individual actions and understand how the actions and dependencies relate to specific classes of 
defenses that may be deployed in an environment. The high-level concepts like 
Control, Execute, and Maintain are further broken down into more descriptive categories where 
individual actions on a system can be defined and categorized. Goals such as initial access, discovery, 
and credential access are commonly used to gain and expand access within an environment with 
an ultimate objective of stealing information through collection and exfiltration. For example, an attacker modifying the balance of a bank account 
 
25 
©2020 The MITRE Corporation. It 
also could be used to execute within a certain context of another process that has certain 
user rights or permissions. • Related methods of execution require a binary to be put on disk and/or some 
configuration change that will load and execute the code in a new process representing 
different opportunities to detect and mitigate. • Other related methods use different functionality provided by Windows to load and 
execute code, such as application shims. Considerations: 
• SQLi may be performed to gain access to an externally facing web server in a DMZ or 
improperly positioned web server that would result in network compromise. Conclusions: 
• The context in which SQLi fits within an adversary’s tactical goals puts it within attempts 
to gain access to a system through an existing software vulnerability. Summary 
This paper discussed the motivation behind the creation of ATT&CK, the components described 
within it, its design philosophy, how the project has progressed, and how it can be used. Available: https://medium.com/mitre-attack/2020-attack-roadmap-4820d30b38ba. [2]  The MITRE Corporation, "Common Attack Pattern Enumeration and Classification," 21 
February 2018. Available: https://medium.com/mitre-attack/how-to-be-a-savvy-attack-consumer-
63e45b8e94c9. [Accessed 16 March 2020].