 Adam Pennington  
Principal Cybersecurity Engineer  
ATT&CK Blog Editor in Chief  
MITRE 
attack.mitre.org 
medium.com/mitre-attack 
twitter.com/MITREattack 
linkedin.com/showcase/mitre-att&ck 
| 1 | 
1 Threat Intelligence 
Katie Nickels 
Based on feedback from ATT&CK users, both at the first ATT&CKcon and from other avenues,  
we’ve learned a lot. Your team could  
follow this same process to create your own “top 20.”  
| 8 | 
 
  
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Threat Intelligence | Katie Nickels 
This process of mapping ATT&CK techniques isn’t perfect and has bias, but this  
information can still help you start to gain a clearer picture of what adversaries are doing. 2 Detection and Analytics 
John Wunder 
Hopefully you had a chance to read in Chapter 1 on getting started using ATT&CK for threat  
intelligence, which walked through understanding what adversaries are doing to attack you and  
how to use that knowledge to prioritize what to defend. For example, you can find their  
list of attacks for Regsvr32, including Squiblydoo. Of course, if you’re already doing red  
teaming, feel free to run the attacks you know yourself (on systems where you have  
permission!) and try to develop analytics for those! Bonus Level 0 Content: Really want to create your own analytics and run your own attacks  
but don’t have your own network? | 14 | 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Detection and Analytics | John Wunder 
OUTPUT FROM RUNNING THE SQUIBLYDOO ATTACK TO LAUNCH CALC.EXE  
Once you’ve run the attack, look inside your SIEM to see what log data was generated. ANALYTIC DEVELOPMENT WORKFLOW 
| 15 | 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Detection and Analytics | John Wunder 
LEVEL 3 
Feel confident that you’re cranking out quality analytics to detect attacks from Atomic  
Red Team? Test that confidence and improve your defenses by doing some purple  
teaming! They can then find and execute an attack that  
will evade that analytic. You’ll again give this to your red team, and they’ll execute an evasion that, for example, 
adds an additional access so that your GrantedAccess bitmask no longer detects it. In the end, you want to be developing a more  
and more comprehensive set of detections so that you can detect more and more of the  
things that adversaries do to attack us—and ATT&CK gives you the scorecard to do so. Each of these tests contains information about what the 
technique is, the platforms supported, and how to execute the test. So, we open up our command prompt, copy and paste the command, add in the 
computer name, and execute the command. It allows the operator to pick one technique or chain many together when  
building the test, which allows you to start to automate sequences of behaviors for your  
testing rather than manually executing single Atomic Tests. Armed with your individual commands, scripts, and tools mapped to  
ATT&CK, you can now plan your engagement. We could then add comments into the Navigator about the order we’ll execute  
the techniques in and how we will perform them. While there are benefits to mapping to ATT&CK as we plan red team operations, we also  
reap the rewards once we’ve executed our operation as we communicate back to our blue  
team. | 25 | 
 
 
 
 
GETTING STARTED WITH ATT&CK: Adversary Emulation and Red Teaming | Blake Strom, Tim Schulz, and Katie Nickels 
Bonus Level 2.5 Content: After using ATT&CK to plan engagements and report results,  
try using the  APT3 Emulation Plan or the ATT&CK Evaluations Round 1 scenario based on  
that plan to conduct an engagement emulating APT3 to show a baseline test against a  
particular adversary group. We recommend a five-step process depicted in the diagram below to create an  
adversary emulation plan, execute the operation, and drive defensive improvements. For example, below is the operational flow the MITRE 
team created for the APT3 Adversary Emulation Plan. Emulate the adversary—With a plan in place, the red team now has the ability to 
execute and perform an emulation engagement. As we’ve recommended for all red 
team engagements using ATT&CK, the red team should closely work with the blue 
team to gain a deep understanding of where gaps are in the blue team’s visibility and 
why they exist. Square Leveraging Microsoft EMET’s Attack Surface Reduction rules can make it harder to 
use RunDLL32. Tip: Always weigh the potential loss of visibility when investigating removing detections  
in favor of mitigations. | 41 | 
|  Solving Problems for a Safer World