Data extracted from: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mitre-attack/attack-stix-
data/master/enterprise-attack/enterprise-attack.json 
 
Obs. Reaching their objective often 
involves pivoting through multiple systems and accounts to gain. TA0043: Reconnaissance 
  Description: The adversary is trying to gather information they can use to plan future 
operations. This information can be leveraged by the 
adversary to aid in other phases of the adversary lifecycle, such as using gathered information 
to plan and execute Initial Access, to scope and prioritize post-compromise objectives, or to 
drive and lead further Reconnaissance efforts. This allows the adversary to gain 
information without making any API requests. In some cases, adversaries may deploy a new container to execute processes 
associated with a particular image or deployment, such as processes that execute or download 
malware. This kind of targeted campaign is often referred to a 
strategic web compromise or watering hole attack. Credentialing and authentication mechanisms may be targeted for exploitation by adversaries 
as a means to gain access to useful credentials or circumvent the process to gain authenticated 
access to systems. (Citation: Bugcrowd Replay Attack)(Citation: Comparitech Replay 
Attack)(Citation: Microsoft Midnight Blizzard Replay Attack) 
 
Such exploitation has been demonstrated in cloud environments as well. (Citation: FBI-BEC) This creates the potential for multiple victims 
(i.e., compromised accounts as well as the ultimate monetary loss) in incidents involving 
financial theft. to gain access to credentials that can be used to access systems, 
services, and network resources. (Citation: Trend Micro APT Attack Tools) Adversaries use these 
types of proxies to manage command and control communications, reduce the number of 
simultaneous outbound network connections, provide resiliency in the face of connection loss, 
or to ride over existing trusted communications paths between victims to avoid suspicion. (Citation: Norton Botnet) Adversaries may purchase a subscription 
to use an existing botnet from a booter/stresser service. With a botnet at their disposal, 
adversaries may perform follow-on activity such as large-scale 
[Phishing](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1566) or Distributed Denial of Service 
(DDoS). (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire)(Citation: Krebs-Anna)(Citation: Krebs-
Bazaar)(Citation: Krebs-Booter) 
  Parent Technique: T1583 
  Associated Tactics: TA0042 
 
T1584.005: Botnet 
  Description: Adversaries may compromise numerous third-party systems to form a botnet that 
can be used during targeting. A botnet is a network of compromised systems that can be 
instructed to perform coordinated tasks. (Citation: Norton Botnet) Instead of purchasing/renting a 
botnet from a booter/stresser service, adversaries may build their own botnet by compromising 
numerous third-party systems. (Citation: Imperva DDoS for Hire) Adversaries may also conduct 
a takeover of an existing botnet, such as redirecting bots to adversary-controlled C2 
servers. CDNs allow an organization to host content from a distributed, 
load balanced array of servers. CMSTP.exe can also be abused to [Bypass User Account 
Control](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1548/002) and execute arbitrary commands from a 
malicious INF through an auto-elevated COM interface. (Citation: Trend 
Micro APT Attack Tools) Adversaries use internal proxies to manage command and control 
communications inside a compromised environment, to reduce the number of simultaneous 
outbound network connections, to provide resiliency in the face of connection loss, or to ride 
over existing trusted communications paths between infected systems to avoid suspicion. Adversaries may leverage these mechanisms to execute malicious content. * `ExecStop`, `ExecStopPre`, and `ExecStopPost` directives execute when a service is stopped. (Citation: Expel AWS Attacker) 
(Citation: Microsoft O365 Admin Roles)  
 
This account modification may immediately follow [Create 
Account](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1136) or other malicious account activity. This allows 
the local SYSTEM account to gain privileges on the domain. Adversaries can modify these values to continually execute arbitrary 
commands. This DoS attack may also reduce the availability and 
functionality of the targeted system(s) and network. This kind of targeted 
campaign is referred to a strategic web compromise or watering hole attack. (Citation: 
Trend Micro APT Attack Tools) Adversaries use these types of proxies to manage command 
and control communications, to provide resiliency in the face of connection loss, or to ride over 
existing trusted communications paths to avoid suspicion. Msiexec.exe can also execute DLLs. An adversary accomplishes a reflection attack by 
sending packets to reflectors with the spoofed address of the victim. Rundll32 can also be used to execute scripts such as JavaScript. Adversaries may generate these cookies in order to gain access to web resources. Associated Tactics: TA0002