 ............................................................................... 6 
4.6 
Examples of information security incidents ....................................................................................... 7 
5 
Plan and prepare phase ........................................................................................................................ 8 
5.1 
Overview of key activities ................................................................................. These impacts can 
include immediate financial loss and longer-term loss arising from damaged reputation and credibility (for 
guidance on business impact analysis, see ISO/IEC 27005:2008). Guidance should include discussion of the 
advantages and disadvantages of undertaking attacker surveillance activities. in a business continuity plan or a crisis management plan. In some cases, it may be desirable for the organization to include awareness detail specifically about 
information security incident management in other training programs (for example, personnel orientation 
programs or general corporate security awareness programs). This awareness approach may provide 
valuable context relevant to particular groups of people, and improves training program effectiveness and 
efficiency. Before the information security incident management scheme becomes operational, the organization should 
ensure that all relevant personnel are familiar with the procedures involved in the detection and reporting of 
information security events, and selected personnel are very knowledgeable about the subsequent activities. This should be followed up by regular awareness briefings and training courses. In addition, the awareness and training programs should be complemented by the establishment and 
operations of ‘hot line’ support from information security incident management personnel, in order to minimize 
delays in reporting and handling information security events, incidents and vulnerabilities. BS ISO/IEC 27035:2011
ISO/IEC 27035:2011(E) 
22 
© ISO/IEC 2011 – All rights reserved
 
5.8 Scheme testing 
The organization should schedule regular checking and testing of the information security incident 
management processes and procedures to highlight potential flaws and problems that may arise during the 
management of information security events and incidents and vulnerabilities. Periodic tests should be 
organized to check processes/procedures and to verify how the ISIRT responds to severe complex incidents, 
through the simulation of realistic attacks, failures or faults. The 
organization should ensure that the appropriate personnel deal with reported information security 
vulnerabilities in a similar manner to how non-information security faults are handled, possibly with 
assessment and resolution using technical personnel (who may or may not be members of the ISIRT). e-mail) are themselves visible targets for attack. This includes when it is thought possible that the system 
is under attack and unauthorized people could read reporting electronic forms. Example guidelines are given in Annex C. Example categories are the 
following: 
a) 
financial loss/disruption to business operations, 
b) 
commercial and economic interests, 
c) 
personal information, 
d) 
legal and regulatory obligations, 
e) 
management and business operations, 
f) 
loss of goodwill, 
g) 
injury or loss of life, and 
h) 
societal disruption. This will allow 
business critical applications to function correctly, and collect as much information as possible about the 
attacker, provided that the attacker does not know that he/she is under surveillance. a) 
While undertaking such a decision, it needs to be considered that the attacker may realize that he/she is 
being observed and may undertake actions that cause further damage to the affected information system, 
service and/or network, and related data, and the attacker could destroy the information that may be 
useful to track him/her. This is especially relevant when the attacker is non-malicious and 
has caused little or no damage. With regard to information security incidents that are caused by something other than deliberate attack, the 
source should be identified. It may be necessary 
to check the integrity of the logs, as a deliberate attacker may have manipulated these logs to cover his/her 
tracks. e-mail or web), 
including when it is thought possible that the system is under attack, the report to the relevant people should 
be done by telephone or text messaging. It may well be necessary for activation of parts of the relevant crisis 
management plan. The crisis management plan(s) and the controls put in place to support the activation of those plan(s), once 
tested satisfactorily, form the basis for dealing with most escalated incidents once so designated. 5 (Plan and prepare) – the content could help to 
implement information security incident management. a) Execute monitoring and reviewing procedures 
and other controls to: 
2) promptly identify attempted and successful 
security breaches and incidents; 
4) help detect security events and thereby 
prevent security incidents by the use of 
indicators. 5 (Plan and prepare) – the content could help to 
implement information security incident management. the source of the attack is ‘faked’), since they typically do not rely on the attacker receiving any information 
back from the network or system being attacked. Some examples of technically stimulated unauthorized access incidents include: 
 
attempts to retrieve password files, 
 
buffer overflow attacks to attempt to gain privileged (e.g., system administrator) access to a target, 
 
exploitation of protocol vulnerabilities to hijack or misdirect legitimate network connections, 
 
attempts to elevate privileges to resources or information beyond what a user or administrator already 
legitimately possesses. In some cases, technical information gathering extends into unauthorized access if, for example, as part of 
searching for vulnerabilities the attacker also attempts to gain unauthorized access. This approach classifies business loss into four broad levels: especially serious business loss, 
serious business loss, considerable business loss, and minor business loss, as described below. An organization could not bear this level of business loss. An organization could bear this level of business 
loss. An organization could completely bear this level of business loss. 1 Be of interest to a competitor but of no commercial value 
2 Be of interest to a competitor to a value that is y1 or less (turnover) 
3 Be of value to a competitor to a value that is between y1+1 and y2 (turnover), or cause financial loss, or 
loss of earning potential, or facilitate improper gain or advantage for individuals or organizations, s) involved (if incident caused by people) 
Description of perpetrator 
Actual or perceived motivation 
Actions taken to resolve incident 
Actions planned to resolve incident 
Actions outstanding 
Conclusion 
BS ISO/IEC 27035:2011
ISO/IEC 27035:2011(E) 
64 
© ISO/IEC 2011 – All rights reserved
 
Internal individuals/entities notified 
External individuals/entities notified 
D.2. e-mail), including when it is thought 
possible that the system is under attack and report electronic forms could be read by unauthorized people, 
then alternative means of reporting should be used. ACTUAL OR PERCEIVED MOTIVATION 
(One of) 
Criminal/Financial Gain
 
Pastime/Hacking
 
 
Political/Terrorism
 
Revenge
 
 
 
Other
 
 
 
Specify:
 
16. Tel: +44 (0)20 8996 7070
Email: copyright@bsigroup.com